

Anonymous apps Fizz, Sidechat compete for students’ attention
A screenshot of an ad for Sidechat that showed up for a student on Instagram.
Eden Teshome / The Daily Princetonian
Edward Tian and Bhoomika Chowdhary
September 20, 2022 | 9:57pm EDT
   

Fizz and Sidechat, two competing private anonymous discussion apps, made their way to campus during the first few weeks of the semester. Both apps have recruited students to promote their respective platforms by offering free merchandise, such as hats, t-shirts, or money to those who post about them on social media.

Fizz was launched by two Stanford dropout students, Teddy Solomon and Ashton Cofer, in July 2021. According to its website, Fizz’s goal is to “facilitate authentic conversations through anonymity while being properly moderated by other students in the community.” Students can register for Fizz with their University-affiliated email address, where they’ll be restricted to connecting with other students at their school.

Sidechat was released seven months after Fizz, in February of 2022. The founders of Sidechat remain anonymous, but according to The Harvard Crimson, Sidechat “allows its users to share memes, jokes, and confessions on a Reddit-style forum with those who attend the same school” in an anonymous format.

While some students have flocked to the apps, many say they are not impressed, especially as the app appears to be redundant with existing platforms like Tiger Confessions.

“[It’s] one step down from Bumble ambassador,” Sullivan Meyer ’24 said.

Meyer is a Staff News Writer for The Daily Princetonian.

Jonathan Ma ’24, however, explained that one of the apps, Sidechat, is distinct from Tiger Confessions in terms of being almost exclusively populated with memes rather than written “confessions.” Ma downloaded Sidechat after seeing one of his friends using it, and said he scrolls through the content every day. 

“It adds a very marginal benefit to my life,” Ma said. “The slightest improvement.”

Fizz and Sidechat marketers both staked out at popular campus locations, such as Frist Campus Center, the U-Store, and Yeh & New College West dining hall.

A Fizz promoter in Frist asked Jocelyn Li ’26 if she wanted a hat while she was on her way from late meal.

Li said that she said yes, and reached for the hat, but then the promoter stopped her from grabbing it. “[He said that] ‘you have to download an app first,’” she said.

Sean Wang ’24 saw Sidechat promoters near Yeh College. He asked them whether or not they are paid per download. The promoters said that they are paid hourly, so there’s less incentive to promote it.

Subscribe Get the best of the ‘Prince’ delivered straight to your inbox. Subscribe now »
He took a free cookie but said, “[Sidechat] didn’t really appeal to me — I never was into Tiger Confessions or apps like that.” 

Bhoomika Chowdhary is a staff writer who often covers University affairs/policy and research. She can be reached at bhoomika@princeton.edu. She is also a senior copy editor for the ‘Prince.’

Edward Tian is a news and features writer who experiments with data driven and alternative story format (ASF) reporting. He can be reached on Twitter @edward_the6.

Professor of Civil Engineering Peter Jaffé began researching industrial cleaning chemicals 20 years ago. In 2016, he decided to focus his research on developing ways to biodegrade perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). These chemicals are widely used in everyday consumer and industry products — although we are also exposed to them in our food, water, and air. Dubbed “forever chemicals” for their non-degradability, PFAS can weaken the immune system, increase risk of cancer, and cause other health concerns in humans. 

Three years later, the Department of Defense (DOD) took an interest in Jaffé’s work and began funding his research. According to the Environmental Working Group, an American activist group focused on agricultural industry research and advocacy, there are over 723 military sites in the U.S. and U.S. territories that are contaminated by PFAS. 

After six years of federal funding, Jaffé says that he and his team have found a way to biodegrade these chemicals. An almost $2 million grant for a field demonstration was the next step. However, this funding was lost on April 1, when several dozen grants awarded to University researchers from NASA, the DOD, and the Department of Energy (DOE) were suspended, reportedly worth at least $210 million. 

“We have done a lot of work showing that we can biodegrade these PFAS,” Jaffé told The Daily Princetonian in an interview. “The University has a series of patents out on it, and we need that field demonstration to get people to believe that it works and invest in them [and then] apply it.”

Now, Jaffé is unable to conduct that field demonstration. In the blink of an eye, the work Jaffé had been working on for 20 years has vanished — unless something changes soon, he remarked. 

Jaffé is not the only professor who is affected by the freeze. In the wake of the grant suspensions, many professors have been thrown into disarray, worried about how they will be able to pay their researchers and continue their research — research that is changing the world, they say. 

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering Elie Bou-Zeid, who lost a DOE grant, wrote to the ‘Prince’ that he believes professors across the country are being directly attacked.

“This is a deliberate attack to weaken and even permanently harm universities like Princeton,” Bou-Zeid said. “As academics, we should have no illusion that this is a misunderstanding or an accident. We are not ‘bystander victims.’ We are the target.” 

Several professors said that the University had stepped in to cover expenses for professors and graduate students.

Chemistry professor Roberto Car had a DOE grant supporting the Computational Chemical Science Center (CCSC) suspended. The grant had partly or fully supported five graduate students and five postdocs.

“In the end, the University will come as a helper of last resort — they will essentially guarantee that the postdocs can stay until the end of their current term, and for the PhD students, they will stay until completion of their thesis,” Car said.

“The University is saying, for the moment, ‘let’s use what resources we do have to support people, and in particular, people more at the junior level, which means often graduate students, whose stipends are coming from these grants, and postdoctoral researchers and junior faculty members,’” Michael Strauss, the Chair of the Department of Astrophysical Sciences, said.

Subscribe Get the best of the ‘Prince’ delivered straight to your inbox. Subscribe now »
Students, Jaffé summarized, “will be able to get through.”

Physics professor William Jones wrote in a statement to the ‘Prince’ that his group is currently developing a polarimeter — a device that measures the re-orientation of light waves — named Taurus that will “measure fluctuations in the cosmic microwave background.” This project is directly funded by NASA and would fly on a NASA stratospheric super-pressure balloon. 

The grants Jones and his student team were receiving helped the group develop highly sensitive detectors known as quantum limited superconducting transition edge sensors, which are integral to Taurus’ functions. 

The award was apparently suspended with no explanation by the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), Jones said.

“Our NASA program officers are not able to provide us any information about the reason or procedure,” Jones wrote. 

Jones also explained that should his grant be reinstated, the group might have already missed their best opportunity to launch Taurus. “These launches are only offered every two years, so missing that date would devastate our students and researchers, not to mention our budget,” Jones said.

Strauss also said that there was significant funding lost from the Department of Energy intended for fusion energy development.

"There seemed to be little rhyme or reason other than it was connected to Princeton,” Strauss said. 

The suspension of some grants have had a ripple effect in certain research centers. 

Chemistry professor Gregory Scholes wrote to the ‘Prince’ that he lost a grant that supported BioLEC, a center whose goal is “to work out ways of producing energy-rich feedstocks that will give America an economic advantage,” according to Scholes. 

“There are many impacts on researcher training, potentially losing expertise for complex experiments, or falling behind other countries at the leading edge of a fast-moving field,” Scholes added. “I’m hopeful that the situation will be resolved soon.”

Jaffé expressed his sentiment to the ‘Prince’ that he and his team will continue to fight for their research. “We have some momentum left. We have our cultures. We have done something.”

“It’s not that we abandoned overnight,” he said.  

Gabriel Vecchi, a geosciences professor, had climate research impacted by the Department of Commerce’s decision last week to end $4 million in funding to climate research at Princeton. 

“Our goal is to minimize any impact on the scholarly progress, education, and career development of … our team,” Vecchi, the Knox Taylor Professor of Geosciences and head of the Vecchi Research Group, wrote to the ‘Prince.’ “I know that our work is valuable to the world and the United States of America.” 

While much remains uncertain, professors said they had an urgent need for assistance.

“We’ve managed to develop a full technology,” Jaffé said. “The trouble is, the longer we wait, the more we lose the expertise in the lab … then we lose the know-how.” 

“This was 20 years worth of different grants and works and discovery and build-up to get finally out the door, and being this close to end, and it’s being killed. It hurts,” he said. 

Luke Grippo is a senior News writer and Features contributor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including Undergraduate Student Government, the Council of the Princeton University Community, and institutional legacy. 

Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.

Correction: A previous version of this piece incorrectly stated that fusion energy development funding was cut from the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory. In fact, the funding was cut from Princeton.

P: There are a couple of little courtyards that have only one exit. I’ll go there and let her off the leash. It’s 1903 [Hall], which is funny, because that’s the dorm I was in. Then, over at the E-Quad, the quadrangle … The waves outside Wawa is her favorite place to run. When I let her run there, she’ll just keep doing circles. She’ll run up and down those little hills. It’s really cute. That’s why we go to Wawa. We were there this morning. She was so excited, started pulling, and I let her off. 

There are no fewer than 11 construction projects currently underway on Princeton University campus. All are expected to be completed between the fall of 2023 and spring of 2027 according to the University's construction timeline.

Some of the projects include the development of the Meadows Neighborhood, the expansion of the University Health Services (UHS), and the TIGER and Central Utility buildings, both which are central to the geo-exchange project and the University’s goal of achieving net-zero emissions by 2046.

Those most central on the college campus and to students’ everyday lives include Hobson College, the development of Dillon Gym, the renovation of the Art Museum, the construction of the new building complex for environmental studies and the School of Engineering and Applied Science, and the work on Poe Field. The Daily Princetonian looked at these projects and their projected completion timeline.

Hobson College
Students moved into Yeh College and New College West, the first among the University’s plans for renovation of existing dorms and housing more upperclassmen, in the fall semester of 2022. Hobson College is a continuation of these plans. The construction of the college is set to be complete in 2027, a delay from the University's initial 2026 projection. The complex is located between the University Health Service (UHS) and Elm Drive, on the site of the former First College.

University spokesperson Michael Hotchkiss described some of the features that students can expect from Hobson College in an email sent to The Daily Princetonian. He said, “the college will house 500 students and include a mix of first-year, sophomore and upper-class rooms and suites.”

The college is also set to contain various social spaces. Plans for the residential college are focused on accessibility, inclusion, and collaboration. Hotchkiss added that the “Hobson College construction will also improve site accessibility, providing east-west connections as well as additional accessible connections up campus and through the new facility.”

Some of the sustainability focuses of Hobson College are the use of stormwater bio-retention systems, geo-exchange technology, and native and adaptive vegetation.

In the vicinity of Hobson College, other construction projects may end earlier. The expansion of UHS is set to be completed on winter 2025, which will include an expansion to promote a more holistic view of wellbeing it will be adjacent to the current McCosh building in Eno Hall, while the current McCosh Health Center might be used for student life. Schmidt Hall, a new computer science building on the site of Guyot Hall should be finished by the summer of 2025.

Dillon Gym and The Class of 1986 Fitness and Wellness Center
The construction around Dillon Gym is anticipated to be completed by the winter of 2025. The project is an expansion and renovation of the current facilities. Students still have access to parts of the facilities while construction proceeds.

“The Class of 1986 Fitness and Wellness Center project includes an addition that will house new fitness areas and workout studios,” Hotchkiss said. 

Subscribe Get the best of the ‘Prince’ delivered straight to your inbox. Subscribe now »
The project also includes the renovation of the south portion of the A level and the Stephens Fitness Center. Hotchkiss noted that “the renovation will create additional recreation and fitness options.” He added that “recreational use of the pool will be available once again when it re-opens in Spring 2024.” 

According to the University website, the overall goal of the expansion and renovation is to provide opportunities for a larger campus community and “[increase] accessibility to most of the building from the pool up to the main gym.”

Hotchkiss described some of the sustainable construction techniques being used on the gym which include: the use of mass timber as a low-carbon alternative to concrete and steel; natural ventilation; and the incorporation of green roofs as stormwater management strategies.

The Art Museum
The construction of a new Art Museum building was announced in 2018 and started in the summer of 2021. With construction at a central location on campus, this project is most notable in terms of noise, obstructions, and effect on aesthetics.

The renovation is set to increase gallery exhibition areas by 38 percent and provide visible storage which will allow easier access to the collections. The new Museum will encompass the former Art Museum, Department of Art and Archaeology, and the Marquand Library. According to the plans, it is set to “bring the University community together and serve as a cultural gateway to the Princeton campus for the wider public.” 

The building is expected to be complete in 2024 according to the construction timeline, although the Art Museum will not open until the spring of 2025. Regardless, the Princeton community can hope to be able to see the Museum’s expansive collections again within the next two years.

Poe Field
The University’s goal of achieving net-zero emissions by 2046 is a large focus for many of the ongoing construction projects. The work on Poe Field is a crucial part of this goal. 

This construction project is focused on the implementation of geo-exchange and stormwater systems. Hotchkiss noted that “1,500 geo-exchange bores [are] planned for central campus as a part of the campus infrastructure conversion,” and the construction on Poe Field includes the installation of nearly 400 of these geo-exchange bores. A further 300 geo-exchange bores have been installed on the Hobson College site and Whitman Lawn area. The geo-exchange system these bores support reduces the campus energy footprint by using the ground as a renewable heat source in winter and heat sink in summer.

Hotchkiss said “Poe Field construction is anticipated to be complete by Fall 2024 and will include the full restoration of Poe Field as a campus recreation and social space.” This is a more ambitious timeline than the University previously projected, initially suggesting the project would take three semesters, or lasting until Spring 2025.

ES + SEAS
A major project south of Prospect Street, the construction of a new campus village for engineering departments is one of the most ambitious parts of the campus plan. A series of new buildings will host four engineering departments. The complex is set to open in 2025 as well. While the new buildings will open, the transition away from the current E-Quad may take longer: new buildings for the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and other relevant centers and departments are still prospective and have not been started.

In plans, the University has highlighted the community elements of the new complex and integration with the rest of campus.

Phase of campus construction
Hotchkiss addressed a number of the concerns regarding construction raised by the student body.

“Updating residential colleges that are no longer programmatically up to standard will be considered for the next capital plan,” he wrote. “Students will have input into these projects as they evolve.”

The first phase of the 10-year dormitory replacement program was completed over the summer, including — according to Hotchkiss — “the installation of over 1,000 casegood furniture sets and in-suite living room furniture” in nine dormitories within Rockefeller and Mathey College. This furniture has already been deployed in New College West and Yeh College and is set to be included in other residential colleges and upperclassmen housing across campus within the next ten years.

Hotchkiss said that “no new projects are scheduled to begin in the immediate future” but warned students that they may see more effects of the current construction plans. Hotchkiss referenced a recent Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) meeting where Associate Vice President of Capital Projects Dozie Ibeh said that on-campus construction was “ramping up” — noting “Many projects are moving from a stage of demolition and structural construction [...] to exterior construction and interior fitout.” He added that “students may expect to see more subcontractors entering project sites.”

Victoria Davies is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’

Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com

EQuad Cafe
EQuad
Currently: Open View Menu(Link is external) (Link opens in new window)
Engineering Quad C Wing(Link is external) (Link opens in new window)
Open toFaculty Staff Students Visitors
Payment AcceptedCredit Cards Dining Points Paw Points Student Charge
Dining StyleAll Day Snacks and Beverages Grab and Go Hot Entrees Buffet Style Pastries and Breakfast Sandwiches Salads Sandwiches

The "Pre-rade" is one of Princeton's newest traditions, dating to September 5, 2004. On that day incoming members of the Class of 2008 were greeted by sophomores, juniors and seniors sporting T-shirts from their various residential colleges, and by alumni dressed in Reunions garb.

Inspired by Princeton's famous P-rade, which takes place at Reunions and marks the graduation of the senior class, the Pre-rade is for first-year students only. They march in the Pre-rade with the president and members of the faculty (in full regalia). Other classes welcome the first-year students and introduce them to Princeton's "Locomotive."

The Pre-rade starts after the Opening Exercises in the chapel. The route proceeds via East Pyne, past Chancellor Green and the Henry House to Nassau Street. There, marching through the FitzRandolph Gate, the members of the incoming class officially enter campus as undergraduates. The route continues past Nassau Hall, between Morrison Hall and Alexander Hall to Blair Arch, where the freshmen participate in a "Step Sing" and are taught the words to Princeton's alma mater, "Old Nassau," by gathered students and alumni.


The Pre-rade ends on the steps of Blair Arch. Photo: Margurite Vera '79
It is a long-standing tradition that alumni teach "Old Nassau" to first-year students — most famously performed by Frederic (Fred) Fox '39, who until his death in 1981 was Princeton's official "Keeper of Princetoniana" and recording secretary. He taught the song to every incoming class as part of a presentation of the Honor Code in Alexander Hall. The Pre-rade continues this tradition and pays homage to the P-rade, welcoming future students with a taste of their lives to come.

For most students, Dillon Gym serves as Princeton’s primary hub for fitness and wellness. Dillon is free for all undergraduate and graduate students to use and closer to the heart of campus than Jadwin Gym, which remains largely exclusive to varsity athletes. As many gym-goers notice, at peak hours, students are forced to wait to use weight stations, strength machines, and cardio equipment.

In light of the expanding student body, as well as ongoing campus dialogue about health and wellness, the Daily Princetonian analyzed data provided by Campus Recreation and spoke to students about their experiences at Dillon. 

The ‘Prince’ graphed the number of students scanning their TigerCards to access Dillon at each half hour of any given early fall semester day. Each data point in the graph represents the average number of scans during that specific interval. Although the ‘Prince’ also requested separate weekend and weekday data, Associate Director of Campus Rec Daniel A. Bennett assured us that “the usage graph would be fairly consistent” across the entire week.

Dillon Gym is open from 6 a.m. to 12 a.m. Monday through Thursday and closes at 10 p.m. on Fridays. On the weekends, it opens at 8 a.m. and closes at 10 p.m. on Saturday and 12 a.m. on Sunday. 

In the Fall 2022 semester, Dillon Gym had on average 1275 visitors each day. During  weekdays, the busiest time of the day was 5:00 PM. Many students opt to work out early in the morning, with early activity spiking at 8:30 AM. Afterwards, once classes start for the day, the gym’s foot traffic declines, with very few visitors from 10 AM to 2 PM. After classes conclude around 4:30 PM, traffic peaks to 90 scans per half hour, making it the busiest time of day. Scans gradually decrease throughout the evening, but never to the same lows that can be seen during the morning’s “dead hours.”


The chart above represents the rate of students entering Dillon but does not account for the number of students actually on the gym floor during each time interval. Therefore, the most noticeable crowded hours may be offset by an additional few minutes from the peaks in this graph. Further, the data also includes non-Stephen Fitness Center users such as students playing pickup basketball, attending club meetings, and taking cycling classes. 

“I would say [it gets] pretty crowded,” Desiree Rivers ‘26 told the ‘Prince’ before entering the Stephens Fitness Center, which sees the most use among students, “I would kind of like more space to do more open [exercises].” 

Indeed, in the face of a larger student body, crowding in Dillion has become a more frequent complaint the University has noted.  Construction to expand the gym to add new entrances and more space for cardio workouts is currently underway.

Some students have also begun to catch onto the gym’s busy and dead hours. “I usually come to the gym in between my lunch period, at noon-ish,” Jonathan Roa ’26 told the ‘Prince’ during a 12:30 PM workout at Stephens. “Sometimes I’ll come in the morning, but recently, I’ve been coming in the afternoon and that’s actually when I’ll see the most people.” Jonathan specifically mentioned 6:00 PM as being the time he feels Dillion is the most crowded. Around that time, there are about 55 swipes to the gym, as shown in the graph.

Others have started going to Dillon later at night. Yoel Yacob ‘25 visits Dillon daily from 10 pm–12 am, which is when it closes. “It’s usually fine later in the week, but Monday and Tuesday nights are quite busy.” 

Subscribe Get the best of the ‘Prince’ delivered straight to your inbox. Subscribe now »
Students have identified that weights and strength equipment have higher wait times than cardio equipment. “I’d say the downstairs [weight training] area is pretty busy,” says Yoel, “especially with the compound lifts like bench and squat stations.”

Katherine Khramtsov ‘26, a member of the Women’s Hockey team, has used both Dillon and Jadwin gyms. “When machines are open [in Jadwin], you can get your workout done quicker. In Dillon, it’s much harder. There’s limited machines, especially with the weight room.” Katherine says she usually goes during midday after visiting Dillon once at 4 PM and consequently "only did cardio because all the [weight] machines were closed.”

Many gym-goers suspect the beginning of the semester to be the busiest time for Dillion. “It’s the most crowded at the beginning of the year, you know, New Year’s resolutions and stuff like that,” says Jonathan. Yoel agrees, saying “the downstairs area was especially packed after New Years.” “I know at the beginning of the semester, it’s really hard to find a treadmill,” Desiree also points out.

Visitors were also asked how they felt about the ongoing expansion to Dillon Gym and  ways they felt Campus Rec could alleviate crowding. Yoel looks forward to the expansion but laments that the project, slated to be completed in Winter 2025, would not finish in time for the Class of 2025. 

“Just leave somebody at the front door,” says Jonathan. “Open this gym up for 24 hours and then allow people to come in at whatever time they can.” Jonathan also noted that a 24-hour Dillon would allow people to get assignments done during the day and end their night off with a workout.

Yacoub Kahkajian is a contributing writer for the Data section of the ‘Prince.’

Daniel Wang is a contributing writer for the Data section of the ‘Prince.’ 

Please direct any corrections requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com. 

Before my first day as president of the Performing Arts Council (PAC), my predecessor told me that the role would be easy because I could let the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Studies (ODUS) take the reins. Looking back at my term from February 2022 to February 2023, those words held a kernel of truth. 

I witnessed the Fall 2022 TigerNight go without a dress rehearsal because of orientation conflicts, the cancellation of This Side of Princeton (TSOP) — an arts showcase for accepted students — due to a shortened Princeton Preview, and incomplete Passport to the Arts data followed by lack of communication from TigerCard services. Out of those three events, PAC was only able to contribute a meaningful change to just one: rescheduling TSOP as a virtual event. But that was not because we just let ODUS take over. It’s because we lacked the necessary authority to make changes that would benefit students. Now, with zero candidates running for the most recent election, PAC’s days seem numbered. But the answer to students’ dissatisfaction with arts coordination is not the end of PAC, but rather a stronger PAC with more student engagement.

So what does PAC actually do? The Performing Arts Council serves as the liaison between student performing arts groups and ODUS. Its purpose lies in facilitating communication between student groups and administrators, organizing school-wide shows like TigerNight, and distributing resources — rehearsal studio space as well as Frist and Whitman Theatre performance slots. To note, PAC can assign its performing groups which weeks they can perform, but they have no control over the location or date for University events. Traditionally, all PAC members have experience in student performance groups, which crucially informs their decision making. This sounds fantastic, in theory. So why has PAC frustrated so many student artists over the years?

Crucially, the resources available for each PAC group have continually decreased over time. While more performing arts groups have emerged over the past few years, the number of performing arts spaces are not keeping pace. Between 2018 and 2022, the number of groups increased from 32 to 37. At the same time, PAC has lost the First dance studio and First black box but gained no new spaces. Furthermore, the varying needs across artistic disciplines, group sizes, and performance schedules also mean that compromise almost never results in equality when distributing resources. For instance, Aerial Arts Club only rehearses in New South Main — a very popular dance studio due to its size and flooring — because it serves as the only space that allows for proper hanging of aerial art equipment. However, since many groups don’t get first-choice studios and times, it makes sense that students have concluded that distribution discrepancies signal biased favoritism towards certain groups, rather than considering them an accommodation for others. PAC’s lack of capacity only exacerbates this situation.

But there also exist fixable issues that PAC cannot address because the council only intermediates. It can send plans as a representative of student groups, but the organization lacks executive power or a seat at the table that can actually influence many of the outcomes. For instance, when we organize TigerNight or performance space distribution, we collect all student group information, provide the guidelines, and draft a plan based on said guidelines before sending it to ODUS or the staff facility managers. However, PAC does not get to be a part of the conversation when it comes to the date and location of TigerNight, any initiatives for performance space development — such as the recent lighting updates in the Frist and Whitman Theaters —, nor space to discuss not just the purpose, but also the impact of events like TigerNight.

Furthermore, PAC’s limited authority means that it can only take a reactive role when things go wrong, rather than participating in proactively solving problems. The council does not have enough involvement within the administrative infrastructure. Even when PAC has tried to proactively reach out to administrators in ODUS or arts programs — such as our investigation into Passport to the Arts data for a joint project with USG — it resulted in communication delays or even complete oversight. From this lack of coordination, we failed to execute a lot of our initiatives or to resolve many issues in a timely manner due to lacking necessary information or permission. I believe that if PAC has tangible sway with and access within ODUS, the organization can create significant changes in service of the artistic student body.

If the council is as powerless as I say, then was my predecessor correct? Should PAC give up and leave it all to ODUS? Absolutely not, and history proves it. The rehearsal and performance space managers during my tenure devoted immeasurable hours into organizing schedules and responding to feedback, including excessive amounts of vitriolic comments. Throughout the turmoil, they achieved the best possible outcomes within the constraints. Not only that, they took the extra step by drafting systemic change of outdated distribution systems.

After 500+ emails and dozens of meetings, I can state this with certainty as the former president: The current purpose of PAC is to investigate, compile, and reveal the truth about what happens behind the artistic scene. It would be ideal if PAC had more authority, like an official ODUS position, and could do more. But even if it comes in the form of another apology email over insufficient space, the council needs to exist as the source of insight into the logistical, material, or administrative reasons behind the limitations in rehearsal space or performance opportunities. By providing this information, PAC establishes the foundation for student performers to debate these topics and give informed feedback on the next audition schedule, TSOP, or construction site for artistic space. This helps create a unified and informed student perspective that PAC can accurately depict to the administration. 

I hope our artistic Tigers will consider the following. If PAC ever ceases to exist, not only will students forfeit total control over the distribution of resources, they will lose direct access to a hub of information pertinent to their everyday functions as performers. So, for the next PAC administration: rise to the challenge, find appreciation in the thanklessness, and serve the Princeton artistic community as a representative voice. For everyone else, criticize, support, and keep the Performance Arts Council alive with your involvement.

For the Wang family, fully celebrating the Mid-Autumn Festival — meant to bring families together — in West Virginia is seemingly impossible when most of the family is a 12-hour flight away in China.

Yet each year, my parents manage to bring a piece of our home in China to the one we share in Appalachia. With their busy work schedules and my long school days, my parents and I had only a few family meals together over the past few years, aside from the American holidays that granted us the same breaks. However, to celebrate Mid-Autumn, the three of us would gather together and enjoy the rare experience of using our dining table. Through scattered conversations — a result of my parents conversing and me interrupting — we enjoy each other’s company. The somewhat hectic dynamic ironically brings comfort amidst chaos in our personal schedules. 

Mooncakes purchased from an Asian market almost forty minutes away also make one of their rare appearances at this dinner, despite none of us really liking them (it truly is the thought that counts). The typical setting for our Mid-Autumn celebration includes my school textbooks and laptop pushed to the side of the table, and my parents eyeing my exposed school notes. The mooncakes are either on an entirely different surface, like a counter several feet away, or stowed away in our pantry. It could take a few weeks for someone to even notice they’re gone. While no lanterns make an appearance, my grandparents briefly join us on the phone as I make a feeble attempt to wish them a happy Mid-Autumn in Mandarin. 

This year was my first year celebrating Mid-Autumn outside of West Virginia. On Mid-Autumn Day, I spent most of the day hunched over my laptop in some secluded area. The rainy weather and looming writing seminar deadline made me homesick for a place I never thought I would miss — homesick for West Virginia itself. Admittedly, I felt like I needed a change of scenery from Princeton. Despite the stunning campus and fall foliage, the New South building and rain dampened any admiration I had for campus that day. I called my parents — something I wish I’d do more often —and complained, despite the privileges that come with attending this university. 

They reminded me of Mid-Autumn Day, which never had much significance to me throughout my adolescence. Our Mid-Autumn celebration would be delayed because of the additional distance put between us. However, Parents’ Weekend was upcoming, and I knew I would feel a sense of familiarity again. Later in the day, I did more school work with friends in the Forbes Library after needing a change of scenery from Firestone’s B floor. I eventually was in the presence of good company, and despite the lackluster start to the day, I was finally feeling like there was something to celebrate. We planned to head to Prospect to get mooncakes in an effort to celebrate Mid-Autumn and escape the schoolwork that was starting to consume our lives.

As we walked across campus, the weather continued its gloomy trend, but my spirits began to rise. We talked about things that led my mind away from academics and relieved an immense burden off my shoulders. Upon arriving, we were ultimately turned away because the event was RSVP only. Despite the apparent failed attempt to celebrate Mid-Autumn, I finally recognized the sense of familiarity I was desperately longing for earlier in the day. 

My Mid-Autumn celebrations have never been up to par with tradition, and most of my family members considered it to be an unfortunate reality that comes with living in West Virginia. However, participating in nontraditional celebrations is not something I have ever regretted; I’m even starting to find it charming. I’ve been able to find the traditions wherever I go, like searching for opportunities to “enjoy” mooncakes. From West Virginia to New Jersey, the eight-hour drive away from the one place I have always lived seemed not so distant thanks to Mid-Autumn. Once again, I was reminded that more than one place could qualify as home.

You silently scrutinize the minute hand of the clock. As if its goal is to mock you, it ticks slower and slower, as though time itself has ceased to exist.It is not until your boss asks you to fetch yet another cup of coffee at the internship you sacrificed your summer (and your soul) for that you finally snap and crumple into a sobbing mess as you remember the loving embrace of the Orange Bubble.

Prox brings you an appreciation of all things Old Nassau offers when the real world just isn’t quite cutting it.

1.Food, food, glorious food




2.Living in Hogwarts



3.Being stressed out of your mind



4.Your buddies



5.The Street



6.That cute guy you always check out at Late Meal



7.The academic growth.

You feel your brain slowly turning into mush as you realize that you’ve gone through every single Buzzfeed article that exists and have YouTubed all the cute cat videos the world has to offer.



8.The squirrels.

It’s like you have thousands of bushy-tailed pets (albeit pets that can be surprisingly aggressive at times).



9.The absurd amount of emails you received during the school year.



10.The ‘Orange Bubble-ness’.

Welcome (back) to your den, Tigers!

As everyone slips into the Orange Bubble andwaymore orange clothes than ever deemed possible, here are seven things that you’re likely to hear around campus (the number seven may or may not be an allusion to a certain wizard boy whose name is thrown around here and there in our magical home). But beware — while what you see at Princeton may be what you get, what you heardefinitelyisn’t.

What they say:“Can you prox me in?”

What they mean:I’m locked out. Can you use your identification card to let me into the building?

What they really mean:That door has been walking into my face since I got back from the Street. The blinking light on the side does vaguely remind me of a little card I may or may not have dropped in the sewer though…

What they say:“Wanna do a Wa run?”

What they mean:Let’s go to Wa-Wa, the 24-hour convenience store near Forbes!

What they really mean:It’s1 a.m.I have the drunchies* and need food desperately enough to walk all the way to a different ZIP code.

*drunchies = being drunk and having a serious need to munch (A.K.A. the drunk munchies).

What they say:“Let’s take the Dinky there!”

What they mean:Let’s take the train from Princeton Junction to Princeton.

What they really mean:We’d rather spend 10 minutes waiting for the Dinky than spend $14 on a cab to get to campus!

What they say:“Please stay in your room between10 and midnighttonight.”

What they mean:You’re going to be picked up. Soon.

What they really mean:Gear up for a night of drinking, going to the Street and then having to clean all of that confetti and shaving cream we’re going to cover you, your room and your hallway with!

What they say:“Are you sure you don’t want me to take you to McCosh?”

What they mean:Do you need to be taken to the University’s health center?

What they really mean:Bro, you’re drunk. You need help — more help than usual, anyway. Your answer has no importance whatsoever. But who says no to free bagels for breakfast?

What they say:“I’m just going to PDF this.”

What they mean:I’m not going to take a letter grade for the class because I’m going to explore everything in my Princetonian pursuit of knowledge.

What they really mean:Please Don’t Fail me for not going to lecture and precept and for not handing in my problem sets.

What they say:“Please be seated for 15 minutes after your receive the meningitis vaccine.”

What they mean:We want to make sure that you can stand up straight before you walk out of here so we don’t have to rush you over to our other wing.

What they really mean:We’re going to delude you into thinking that everything is perfect. Until the meng-arm and men-drome kick in, of course.

A.B., abbrev. Artium Baccalaureus, or Bachelor of Arts. Though called B.A. at most other schools, it’s still your typical liberal arts degree. For the same strange reason we have “certificates” instead of “minors,” you’re receiving an “A.B.” instead of a “B.A.” Unless you’re an engineer, of course. See “B.S.E.”
Academic mediocrity, n. The subject of a 2022 quote by Eisgruber on mental health. Divisive topic on campus.
Acaprez, n. Name of the group that represents Princeton's 8 most prestigious acapella groups. You can only hold membership in one group — they host auditions together. There are acapella groups on campus that are not recognized by acaprez. Yes, there is a heirarchy within the acapella scene... welcome to the Ivy League.
Adviser, n. 1. Faculty member assigned to first-years to assist in course selection. Usually a specialist in a field totally unrelated to yours. 2. Faculty member assigned to sophomores with an unclear role. 3. Faculty member assigned to juniors and seniors to provide guidance in writing junior papers and theses. All vary widely in quality of advising and level of engagement.
Alcohol Initiative, n. A trustee-sponsored attempt to reduce alcohol consumption by throwing huge sums of money at undergraduates for alternative activities.
Alexander Beach, n. Princeton’s version of a beach. Lacks sand and water but is filled with lots of bodies in bathing suits on sunny spring days. Located in front of Alexander Hall on the northern end of campus. See “Poe Field.”
All-nighter, n. Grim, dusk-to-dawn studying or writing marathon in which sleep is postponed indefinitely. Often procrastination-induced and caffeine-fueled. Usually followed by prolonged periods of hibernation. Your freshman 15 will probably be 60 percent the food you eat during these. Welcome to college.
Alumni, n. pl. Those who came before. Gosh, they sure do love the place. Prone to wearing abominable combinations of orange and black. See “Reunions.”
Arch sing, n. Event where a cappella singing groups perform a few of their favorite tunes in campus archways. Good singing and great acoustics, but the novelty can wear off quickly. A large percentage of the audience is made up of group members’ significant others (or wannabe significant others) and roommates. See “jam,” “Blair Arch.”
Baker Rink, n. Ice rink located down-campus where the hockey teams practice. The USG sometimes holds free Skate Nights where you can take dates.
Band, n. The University scramble band. Football halftime shows are occasionally funny and always tasteless. Often uses unconventional instruments, such as a plastic Santa Claus and stop signs. Hard to miss in their extremely plaid orange blazers as they parade through libraries on Dean’s Date or serenade the hapless on Valentine’s Day.
Barstool Princeton, n. A wildly popular Instagram account affiliated with the sports media company, Barstool. Posts Princeton-oriented memes that are pretty hit or miss — some upperclass students will say it’s “gone down in quality” recently.
Beer, n. Beverage of choice on Prospect Avenue. Some clubs try to impress potential members by serving such brew-house delicacies as Killian’s or Yuengling, but eight times out of 10 it’s just watered-down Natty Light.
Bicker, n. Princeton’s multi-day equivalent of fraternity or sorority rush for the seven selective eating clubs. During Bicker, club members meet sophomores and other upperclass students to determine whether they are worthy of membership. “Worthiness” is determined in a variety of ways. As divisive as it sounds. See “sign-in club,” “double Bicker.”
Blair Arch, n. That large, pretty arch across from Richardson Auditorium. Campus landmark and frequent site of a cappella jams. Saving grace of Matheyites. See “Mathey College.”
Blair Tower, n. Former home of despised sophomores who lucked out during residential college room draw and got amazing rooms with amazing views. Now used as classrooms and housing for resident graduate students and a few faculty members in residence.
Bomb, v. To do miserably on an exam. Translates to a range between A-minus to actually failing. See “Orgo,” “grade deflation.”
Bonfire, n. Tradition of lighting an enormous bonfire on Cannon Green to celebrate the football team’s victories over both Harvard and Yale in a season. Involves singing praises to Old Nassau as effigies of John Harvard and the Yale bulldog are burned in a fiery inferno. Pretty much as cultish as it sounds. Keep your fingers crossed for the next one.
Boot, v. To toss one’s cookies, worship the porcelain god, barf, puke, vomit, ralph, regurgitate, spew chunks, whistle carrots, etc. Usually engaged in as part of a “boot and rally,” with hopes of rejoining the party.
Breakout Trips, n. A collection of civic engagement trips planned and led by students and funded by the Pace Center for Civic Engagement. Participants are selected by application (and you thought your application days were over — you’re in for a rude awakening). Trips take place over fall and spring breaks. Past trips have examined arts in Philadelphia, school technology in Boston, immigration in Arizona, farming in Florida, and other social issues.
Bric-a-Brac, n. Princeton’s all-class yearbook. Make sure you show up on time for picture day and get all your friends to sign HAGS at the end of a school year! Don’t. High school is over. See “Nassau Herald.”
Bridges, nickname, CEE 102: Engineering in the Modern World. CEE 102: Engineering in the Modern World. 102: Engineering in the Modern World. Counts as an HA for science kids and an SEL for humanities kids. In past years, the final has involved literally memorizing pictures of bridges. See “P/D/F.”
B.S.E., abbrev. Bachelor’s of Science in Engineering. Though called “B.S.” at some other schools, there’s no b.s. in Princeton’s engineering degree.
Bubble, the, n. The metaphorical orange bubble that surrounds campus, keeping us in and the real world out. Also called “The Orange Bubble.” Usage: “Back in the bubble!”, “Welcome to the bubble.” To be used sparingly.
Business Today, n. Glossy campus business affairs magazine with large alumni coffers where ex-Future Business Leaders of America gather to talk Goldman. See “i-banking,” “consulting.”
Butler College, n. Residential college with the newest buildings prior, of course, to the construction of New College West and Yeh College. Located what used to be far down-campus and now is the center of campus.
Cafe Vivian, n. A once swanky, but now mostly closed food joint on the first floor of Frist Campus Center. A food pickup spot during Ramadan.
Campus Club, n. Defunct eating club purchased by the University to hold events. Home to Coffee Club. See “Alcohol Initiative,” “Coffee Club.”
Campus fox, n. The fox that resides on campus, most often spotted up campus. Although multiple foxes have been spotted at once, campus legend says there is only one campus fox.
Cannon Club, n. Bicker club known for its three taprooms. The club plays host to a large proportion of athletes, especially field sports.
Canvas, n. Software to check your coursework. Princeton’s very late step into the modern world of college education. Successor of Blackboard
Cap & Gown Club, n. Consistently the most bickered club, Cap has a self-proclaimed reputation for being “chill and diverse.” Some of its classic night out themes include Capmandu and Boxers and Blazers.
Carl A. Fields Center, n. Properly called the Carl A. Fields Center for Equality and Cultural Understanding, but colloquially known as CAF. A building located on Prospect Avenue that hosts events and programming aimed at celebrating diversity.
Carnegie, Lake, n. Five minutes from campus, five miles long. Scenic venue for crew but too slimy for swimming. Gift of Andrew Carnegie so that Princeton could have a crew team, after then-University President Woodrow Wilson, Class of 1879, asked him for money for University construction. Wilson’s reported comment: “We asked for bread, and he gave us cake.”
Carrel, n. Like the all-male student body and the old pub in Chancellor Green, carrels are the newest addition to the ghosts of Princeton past. For better or for worse, you will never know the four-by-six-by-eight-foot metal study closets in Firestone Library where seniors locked themselves around February to emerge in April with 30,000-word theses. Don’t worry, you’ll get study spaces that aren’t fire hazards. See “thesis.”
CD, abbrev. Culture and Difference. A distribution requirement that began with the Class of 2024, and the only requirement that can be satisfied concurrently with another. Interdisciplinary requirement whose applicable courses are in many fields.
Certificate, n. The traditional Princeton term for minors. The faculty approved the creation of actual minors last year, so for now we have a weird combination of both certificates and minors. Your certificate or minor area of study must be addressed in some capacity in your thesis. Too many people take Statistics and Machine Learning (SML). See “thesis.”
Chapel, n. Site of religious services and opening exercises at the start of every year until the class sizes got too large. Third-largest university chapel in the world. Contrary to Orange Key legend, it wasn’t built by a Yalie.
Chancellor Green, n. Gorgeous library attached to East Pyne featuring stained-glass windows and amazingly comfortable couches. Naps happen here.
Charter Club, n. Club located extremely far down Prospect Avenue, near the E-Quad. After a rebrand, one of the most coveted club on the street with lots of competition for selective sign-in spots. Site of Friday debauchery.
CJL, abbrev. Center for Jewish Life. Self-explanatory building on Washington Road. Popular lunch spot regardless of religious affiliation due to its central location.
Clapper, n. Part of the Nassau Hall bell that the incoming class tried to steal each year. The logic behind the age-old tradition is that if the clapper is stolen, the bell signifying the start of classes won’t ring, so classes can’t be held. After Geoffrey MacArthur ’95 fell from the tower in 1992, the administration decided to remove the clapper permanently.
Cloister Inn, n. Sign-in club known for hosting a high percentage of water-based athletes. Popular street destination for first-years since it’s PUID.
Cluster, n. Where a whole bunch of computers congregate. Features printers which are often jammed, toner-less, or otherwise malfunctioning; staplers that are often broken or empty; and people scowling at the movies they have to watch for class. Scattered throughout campus.
Coffee Club, n. Student-run coffee shop in the taproom of Campus Club and the lobby of New College West. Cheaper alternative to coffee shops on Nassau Street.
Colonial Club, n. Sign-in club that at one point claimed Friday nights from Charter. Often serves hard cider on tap.
Committee on Discipline, n. The University body responsible for investigating academic integrity and other disciplinary offenses.
CA, abbrev. Community Action. Week-long pre-orientation activity built around service trips in the Princeton, Trenton and Philadelphia areas. Like Outdoor Action, but with showers.
Consulting, n. What many of your classmates will go on to do. No one actually knows what consulting means, but they do know it brings in the bucks. See “SPIA.”
Co-op, n. Upperclass dining alternative in which members share cooking responsibilities. Vegetarians, try 2 Dickinson St.; omnivores, stick to Brown, Real Food, or the International Food Co-ops.
Cottage Club, n. Officially called “University Cottage Club.” Bicker club populated by athletes, Southerners and the wealthy. Known for its spring Sunday Fundays, darties with various themes that can always be counted on to feature beer and American flags.
CPS, abbrev. Counseling and Psychological Services. Office of therapists located on the third floor of McCosh, available to you free of charge. See “McCosh.”
C-Store, n. A godsend with everything from nail clippers to bulk candy, found on the first floor of Frist.
Daily Princetonian, the, n. What you’re reading now. Your one true source of information on life, the universe, and everything, as well as the only daily newspaper on campus and one of the oldest college dailies in the country. Available for free everywhere. An absolute good. A force for justice in an unjust and cruel world. Administrators cringe before its unquestioned power. Completely independent from the University. Also known as the ‘Prince.’
Dinky Bar, n. Where seniors and graduate students who are too mature for the Street go for expensive cocktails.
D-Bar, abbrev. Debasement Bar. Sole hangout for graduate students, located in the basement of the Graduate College. According to reports, highly awkward. See “Grad College,” “graduate student.”
Dead Week, n. Week between the end of finals and graduation, when seniors and students employed for Reunions hang out and try to do as little as possible. This can take the form of group vacations to the beach. See “Reunions.”
Dean’s Date, n. The last day of reading period, when course papers are due. Stress reaches all-time high as students realize the number of pages they have left to write exceeds the number of hours before the deadline. To combat this stress, students over time have created many traditions, including the Band playing around campus and in Firestone and a midnight meal in the res colleges. See “all-nighter.”
Dei Sub Numine Viget, phrase. Latin motto on Princeton’s seal. Translation: “Under God’s Power She Flourishes.” Unofficial version: “God Went to Princeton.”
Dillon Gymnasium, n. Recreational center in the middle of campus open to non-athletes. Contains a pool, squash courts, multipurpose rooms, a large gym, and a fitness center. Site of loud Zumba and spin cycle classes.
Dinky, n. Our version of the Hogwarts Express. Mini-train that takes you to Princeton Junction for connections to the real world. Flashpoint of battle between town and University.
Distribution requirements, n. Princeton’s plan for a true liberal arts education. Ensures STEM students take copious humanities classes, and humanities students take a few STEM classes. See “P/D/F.”
Double Bicker, n. Initiative begun somewhat recently in which bicker clubs allow sophomores to bicker two clubs at once. See “Bicker.”
Down-campus, adj. n. Located on the part of campus closer to the lake, down the hill. Begins roughly at Dillon, ends at the lake. Synonyms: “South.” Usage: “It’s a little further down-campus than Edwards.”
E-Quad, abbrev. Engineering Quadrangle. A collection of academic buildings where engineers spend all their time. Very, very far east from central campus.
East Pyne, n. Pretty building up-campus near Firestone Library that houses language departments, the department of comparative literature, and the department of classics.
Eating clubs, n. Eleven large mansions on Prospect Avenue that serve as the hub of upperclass student life. What you would get if a fancy dining hall had a baby with a sorority/fraternity house. You probably weren’t allowed to ask questions about them on your tour. Biggest reason that Princeton is still considered elitist by the outside world.
EC, abbrev. Epistemology and Cognition. Distribution requirement with no discernible meaning. Filled most frequently by philosophy and psychology classes. See “P/D/F.”
Eisgruber, Christopher, n. Your fearless leader. Eisgruber ’83 ascended to the University presidency from the position of provost in 2013. Seems to have forgotten that this isn’t high school and assigned you summer reading. Well-respected in academic circles.
EM, abbrev. Ethical Thought and Moral Values. Distribution requirement once filled with Peter Singer’s “Practical Ethics,” in which one of the most prominent philosophers of our time convinces you to stop eating meat. He’s since left the University, so good luck figuring out your “values” now.
Entryway, n. Self-contained section of a dorm or classroom building. Most frequently found in older buildings, which were built to be riot-proof. Only way to get from one entry to another is to go outside and back in again or go through the basement or up to the top floor. Partly because of this system, you may never meet the person who lives on the other side of your bedroom wall.
E-reserves, n. Catalogs of off-centered scans of many required readings. Thank your professors when they offer these in place of Pequod packets. Bow down to professors who are able to photocopy readings not upside down. Curse all professors as you wait for 300 pages of readings to print. See “Pequod.”
Fall break, n. Week-long vacation immediately following fall midterms. Implemented in the 1970s when campus activists demanded time off before Election Day to campaign for their favorite bleeding-heart liberal congressional candidates. A prime road-trip week. See “Breakout Trips.”
Fine Hall, n. The name of that extremely ugly brown building rising high above the earth down-campus behind Lewis Library. Contains the math department.
Fire inspection, n. Twice-a-semester unannounced visit to your dorm room, before which you should frantically hide illegal appliances under your blankets and un-tape your door to avoid fines.
Firestone Library, n. The mothership. Books on books on books (on shelves.) Large behemoth of a library containing books on every subject imaginable, as well as asbestos. Popular study spot. Deathly quiet. See “carrel.”
First College, n. Once Princeton's oldest residential college. Now primarily a shallow hole in the ground. On the site of the future Hobson College.
FitzRandolph Gate, n. Gate in front of Nassau Hall. If you walk out the center gate while an undergraduate, you will not graduate. Of course, that’s just a legend. Try it and let us know.
Fizz, n. A social media app popular with campus youngsters which has replaced TigerConfessions as the hub of campus gossip.
Forbes brunch, n. The concession Princeton had to make to Forbesians to ensure they wouldn’t drop out. In exchange for living in The Land Far Far Away, Forbesians get a chocolate fountain on Sundays. Is it a fair trade? That’s for you to decide.
Forbes College, n. The res college rumored to exist just west of the Lewis Center for the Arts and Wawa. Only visited by non-Forbesians on weekends due to its fancy brunch spreads. See “Forbes brunch.”
Franzia, n. Brand of boxed (read: dirt cheap and sickeningly sweet) wine. Goes down easy, comes back up more painfully. See “boot,” “Tower Club.”
Frist, n. The campus center. Home of the student government, mailboxes, and chicken tenders. A fun and relaxing place to socialize and study as long as you don’t take introductory Chinese. Not to be confused with First. See “Late meal.”
Fraternities, n. pl. First-years, avert your eyes. Groups of males that gather to drink and make lots of grunting noises. First-years are not allowed to rush Greek organizations. Those who do face suspension. Not a big presence on campus, but they may be your ticket into a bicker club.
Frosh Week, n. The week before classes, when sophomores and upperclass students reacquaint themselves with campus life and “meet” the first-years, who are kept busy by an array of University-sponsored activities. Prime time to drink copious amounts of alcohol amid nighttime mosh pits in the eating clubs’ backyards. In recent years, actual Frosh have been banned. You can thank the Class of 2022 (and the pandemic, if you've heard of it). See “McCosh.”
FYRE, abbrev. First-Year Residential Experience. A group of “required” assemblies and zee group meetings that begin during orientation, and end sometime during first semester. Cover important topics such as diversity and inclusion.
Garden Theatre, Princeton, n. Community theater. Shows mostly artsy films as well as a few big-budget flicks. Good first date. Occasionally offers free movies for students sponsored by USG.
Graduate College, the., n. Commonly called the “Grad College.” A mythical castle across the golf course behind Forbes rumored to be inhabited by those they call “graduate students.” Undergrads like to climb its tower to take pictures of the view and eat in its dining hall on Thursday nights, when dinner features specialty food stations with made-to-order sesame noodles, quesadillas, etc. See “D-bar.”
Grade deflation, n. Former university policy to limit A’s in courses to 35 percent of grades per department. Although the official policy ended, its residual effects still exist on campus. Extremely controversial and a source of many a dining hall debate and Princeton’s unofficial motto, “It would’ve been an A at Harvard.”
Graduate student, n. An individual smart enough to translate Kierkegaard into 14 languages but mostly isolated from campus life. Many are forced to live roughly one mile from central campus.
GSRC, abbrev. Gender and Sexuality Resource Center. Name is self-explanatory. Located in Frist. Replaced centers formerly known as the Women*s Center and LGBT Center.
HA, abbrev. Historical Analysis. Distribution requirement that can be fulfilled by, you guessed it, a history class.
Head, n. Faculty member who acts as den mother or father for the first-years and sophomores in the residential colleges.
Hoagie Haven, n. A Princeton institution, best known for catering to the late night wishes of drunken eating club go-ers. Now with earlier closing times, the small hoagie shop on Nassau Street still serves up sandwiches filled with things like french fries, chicken tenders, multiple burger patties, and buffalo sauce, often in combination. Tied with Wawa for the most dangerous of drunk-food destinations.
Holder Howl, n. A moment of collective campus catharsis at midnight each Dean’s Date when students gather in Holder Courtyard in Rocky to release a primal scream of fear and frustration. See “Dean’s Date.”
Honor Code, n. Institution through which University exams are policed. Students sign pledges agreeing not to cheat on exams and to turn in those who do. Taken very seriously. See “Committee on Discipline.”
Hookup culture, n. A semi-significant feature of the social scene which is the topic of significant online debate.
Hose, v. To render helpless. Most often done to rejected Bicker prospects, who are hosed at their doorstep. Fraternities, sororities, and a cappella groups hose, but don’t worry — a literal hose is typically not involved. See “Bicker.”
Houseparties, n. Pseudo-bacchanal scheduled for the weekend after the end of spring semester classes. With theses complete and exams two weeks distant, eating clubs host wine-filled formal and semiformal dinners. The only ones who have it bad are juniors finishing (starting) their JPs and first-year males, who aren’t invited.
I-banking, nickname, investment banking., banking. What many of your classmates will go on to do. Similar to consulting in its level of money and level of pointlessness.
ICC, abbrev. Interclub Council. Group made up of the 11 eating club presidents. Coordinates relations between Prospect Avenue, the municipality, and the University.
Independent, n. adj. Upperclass student who joins neither an eating club nor a University dining facility. By graduation, they’re either a great connoisseur of Princeton’s restaurants, a great cook, or a great mooch. Many live in Spelman Hall.
Interactor, n. Upperclass B.S.E. student who helps advise B.S.E. first-years, especially at the beginning of the year. Periodically checks in and hosts study breaks.
Ivy Club, n. Bicker club with a reputation for elitism, mahogany, and international students. Its women’s bathroom may be the most photographed part of Princeton, after Blair Arch.
Ivy Inn, n. The one and only “bar” in Princeton. Right near Hoagie Haven. Definitely “end of the night” vibes.
Jadwin Gymnasium, n. Gym for varsity athletes and sports located far, far down-campus, informally called “Jadwin.” Site of varsity basketball games. Not Jadwin Hall.
Jadwin Hall, n. An academic building south of Fine Hall that contains the physics department. Not Jadwin Gymnasium.
Jam, n. An event at which one or more a cappella groups sing, commonly under an arch.
JP, abbrev. junior paper. Lengthy independent work for juniors meant to prepare them for the senior thesis. Some departments require one; most require two. Tragic reminder of impending mortality.
Keller Center, n. Center located near the E-quad that sponsors events, classes, and programming related to entrepreneurship and innovation. Stop by before you drop out to work on your start-up full-time.
Kiddie lit, nickname, ENG 385: Children’s Literature, Perennially over-enrolled course that people think will be an easy LA. over-enrolled course that people think will be an easy LA. Beware — it’s quite large and grades are heavily deflated.
LA, abbrev. Literature and Arts, a category of your distribution requirements. See “kiddie lit.”
Late meal, n. The only thing that makes upperclass students jealous of first-years. In theory, an option for students who miss dining hall meal times. In practice, free noms and mixers See “Frist.”
Lawnparties, n. Afternoon drink-a-thon and dance-a-thon on the lawn of each eating club, held in early fall and at the end of spring Houseparties. Known for importing great bands and creating a massive influx of sundresses on Prospect Avenue. Traditionally, an explosion of preppy clothing.
LCA, abbrev. Lewis Center for the Arts. Beautiful, modern building complex that serves as Princeton’s home for the arts. Safe haven for theater kids.
Lectures, n. pl. Oft-missed speeches by professors that constitute the foundation of the Princeton education. Try to attend a couple so you can tell your parents that you are making the most of their tuition dollars.
Lewis Library, n. Large, modern science library located down-campus across Washington Road. Its treehouse floor is an especially popular study spot featuring many windows.
List, n. Method that bicker clubs use to determine who can enter for a night out. What first-years and sophomores agonize about getting onto. Why juniors and seniors in these clubs get texts from younger students they barely know.
Listserv, n. The reason your Gmail app continuously gives you notifications. A main line of communication between campus groups and their members. Most common iterations include your res college listserv, filled with messages ranging from dance group ticket sales to political manifestos, and the free food listserv, which is exactly what it sounds like.
Lot 32, n. Parking lot located just outside of campus, far down Elm Road, where your upperclass friends’ cars are located.
Mathey College, n. Residential college located just south of Rocky. A collection of loosely associated buildings with no central quad. Shares a large, picturesque dining hall with Rocky.
McCosh Hall, n. A large, sprawling series of lecture halls up-campus in which many of your introductory-level large lecture classes will be held. Also features smaller seminar rooms mainly used by the English and History departments. Desks are small, cramped, and wooden; bathrooms are difficult to find. Site of the infamous bat incident, where a bat caused an interruption so large that an Econ lecture ended early.
McCosh, abbrev. McCosh Health Center. 1. n. Located just south of Frist. You go here when you’re too drunk to go to your room but not drunk enough for the hospital. Areas of expertise: mono and asking women if they’re pregnant. 2. v. Sending your too-drunk friend to the infirmary, or getting sent yourself. Usage: “We had no choice but to McCosh him,” or “Frosh week was so messy, I got McCoshed.”
McCosh Walk, n. Walkway extending from University Place on the west to Washington Road on the east. If there weren’t hills, you’d be able to see clear from one end of campus to the other. Features many puddles. Stop by around 4:55 p.m. on Dean’s Date to watch your friends sprint.
McGraw, abbrev. McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning. Academic support center that offers one-on-one and group tutoring for many introductory courses, as well as other resources for students. Located in Frist. Also a good study spot.
Murray Dodge, n. Free cookies and tea but be prepared to hand over your prox as collateral. Also don’t forget to wash your own mugs once you’re done. Try the matcha tea cookies if you dare. This place is an extremely popular study spot, so go at off-peak times if you want to get a seat.
NARP, n. Non-athletic regular person. We are here and we are proud.
Nassau Herald, n. Princeton yearbook containing only the senior photos. To get all the other stuff you associate with yearbooks, you have to shell out some extra cash for the Bric-a-Brac. See “Bric-a-Brac.”
Nassau Weekly, n. Also “the Nass.” A weekly tabloid co-founded in the early 80s by a dude who now runs The New Yorker. Known for humorous “Verbatim” section, which is filled with random overheard quotes from around campus, and for printing other random musings. See “WPRB,” “St.A’s.”
netID, n. The part of your email address preceding “@princeton.edu” and your username for most campus websites.
New York City, n. Just an hour-and-a-half train ride away. Sometimes certain classes take you there for free.
NCW, abbrev. New College West. One of Princeton’s newest pair of residential colleges. Located at the far-southern end of campus. Not yet named for a donor. Has a Coffee Club and a ceramics studio. See “Yeh College.”
Nude Olympics, n. Sophomore rite of passage banned in 1999 as part of an effort to reduce drunken revelry. Celebrated by running naked through Holder Courtyard at midnight on the night of each year’s first snowfall.
OA, abbrev. Outdoor Action. Week-long pre-orientation program that sends half of the incoming class into the woods to get dirty and make friends. There’s no action on Outdoor Action, but there’s always frosh week to get to know a new friend even better.
ODUS, abbrev. Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students. Oversees campus organizations, undergraduate student government, and various student centers. A source of funding for your student group.
OIT, abbrev. Office of Information Technology. Controls the University’s computer and Internet systems. Runs a tech clinic in Frist.
Old Nassau, 1. phrase. Nickname for Princeton University, derived from Nassau Hall. 2. n. School song.
Orange Key, n. Campus tour-guiding group. Don’t believe everything they told you on your tour.
Orange and Black Ball, n. Campus-wide ball resurrected after a decades-long absence. Lots of finger food. Similar to prom.
Orgo, abbrev. CHM 301/302: Organic Chemistry. Soul-killer. Separates the kids from the doctors.
PAA, abbrev. Peer Academic Adviser. Student available to give first-years academic advice. Shows up sparingly at zee group study breaks.
Pace Center, n. Civic engagement powerhouse on campus that encompasses Community House and the Student Volunteers Council. Sponsors Breakout trips during school breaks and distributes large amounts of money for service projects. See “Breakout trips.”
Palmer Square, n. Town square located just across Nassau Street from the University. Home to preppy stores, specialty boutiques, and townies.
Patton, Susan, n. An alumna of the Class of 1977 who wrote an infamous Letter to the Editor to this paper discussing advice she would give to her daughter, namely her belief that Princetonian women should “find a husband on campus before [they] graduate.” Draw your own conclusions.
PAW, abbrev. Princeton Alumni Weekly. The nation’s fourth-oldest weekly magazine, published by the Alumni Association, far less than weekly.
Pay with Points, n. A very new USG initiative that gives underclassmen $150 a semester to spend at an ever-growing list of restaurants in town. Frequently (and deeply incorrectly) referred to as Paw Points.
P/D/F, abbrev. pass/D/fail. Grading option developed to facilitate a true liberal arts education. Designed to allow students to take a class that expands their horizons with the guarantee that their GPA won’t tank. Unless you get a D. Or fail. See “distribution requirements.”
PEV, abbrev. Personal electric vehicle. What the University calls electric scooters, which are banned on campus as of December 2023. If you bring one to campus, it will likely be confiscated while you’re in lecture, beware! While electric bikes should be a part of this policy, it’s not enforced — seriously, watch out, they’ll run you over. See “P-Safe.”
Pequod, n. 1. Fictional ship in Herman Melville’s “Moby Dick.” 2. Outrageously expensive photocopied packets of required reading that often resemble the whale. Promised to become free during every USG election. Don’t hold your breath. Found in the U-Store.
Physics for Future Leaders, actual name of PHY 115A, A physics course explicitly designed to introduce non-scientists to just enough science to ostensibly be able to make decisions. physics course explicitly designed to introduce non-scientists to just enough science to ostensibly be able to make decisions. Future leaders who are also scientists should seek an actual education elsewhere. See “P/D/F.”
Pickups, n. pl. Nights on which Princeton’s many, many selective clubs and organizations greet new members by showering them with champagne, Silly String, etc. in their dorm rooms and then taking them elsewhere for revelry.
PMC, abbrev. Princeton Medical Center. The destination you absolutely don’t want to end up after a night out. Getting PMCed is a much more expensive alternative to getting McCoshed. See “McCosh,” “boot.” 2. Princeton Model Congress. Event for high schoolers, staffed by students who get to stay in D.C. for free. Not to be confused with the former.
PMT, abbrev. Princeton Mock Trial. A very competitive traveling competition team, that’s a little bit cultish. If your friend joins, you will likely never see them again on the weekends. See “Cap & Gown Club.”
Poe Field, n. Large oval field at the far southern end of campus where club and intramural sports teams hold practices, sunbathing frequently occurs, and barbecues are sometimes held. See “Alexander Beach.”. Shut down for construction and closed until 2026.
P-Rade, n. Annual procession of ridiculously spirited, multi-generational alumni sporting black-and-orange costumes. Takes place at the end of Reunions. See “alumni,” “Reunions.”
Pre-med, n. A student hoping to go to medical school. Generalized anxiety and cutthroat behavior varies per person.
Precept, n. Discussion between a small group of students and a preceptor (a grad student or faculty member) to supplement lectures. A unique feature of Princeton’s education system inaugurated by Woodrow Wilson. Vary widely in quality. Never truly mandatory.
Prefrosh, n. What you are until you arrive on campus.
Pregame, 1. n. Name for any gathering held prior to a night out on the Street. Usually a source of hard liquor. Usage: “birthday pregame,” “frat pregame.” 2. v. To consume drinks at a party held on campus prior to a night out on the Street. Usage: “Let’s pregame at John’s birthday party before heading to T.I.”
Princeton, n. 1. The University to which you have committed the rest of your life (including your future earnings). 2. The affluent suburban town in which your blissful Orange Bubble is located.
Princetoween, n. The night on which all of campus collectively celebrates Halloween, irrespective of the actual date. Typically the Thursday before Fall Break.
Prospect, abbrev. 1. Prospect House. Formerly the University president’s home in the middle of campus. Now a faculty dining hall and the site of end-of-semester fancy dinners for various organizations. 2. Prospect Garden. The gardens surrounding Prospect House; popular venue for Houseparties photos. 3. Prospect Avenue, a.k.a the Street. 4. The Prospect, the ‘Prince’ section for arts, culture, and student life.
Prospect 12, n. The ultimate drinking challenge: one beer at every eating club in one night. A favored item on senior bucket lists. Most commonly conquered on Princetoween or Dranksgiving. Although only 11 clubs are operational, the 12th is Campus Club.
Prox, 1. n. Common name for PUID, or the Princeton University TigerCard. 2. v. To unlock a door by holding your PUID close to an electronic sensor. Usage: “Could you prox me in?” See “PUID.”
P-Safe, abbrev. Public Safety. University cops responsible for regulating parking, ignoring room parties, and opening doors for locked-out students.
PTL, abbrev. Post-Thesis Life. The time of year after seniors have turned in their thesis, but before graduation, where they have no responsibilities in life. A time well spent but poorly remembered.
PUID, n. 1. Your University ID. Your key to admission at the library, sporting events, and eating clubs. Can be used to charge food purchases to your student account. Eating club members sport special stickers on theirs. 2. Method sign-in clubs use to determine who can enter during nights out. In this case, if you’re a student and have a PUID, you’re good. See “prox.”
QCR, abbrev. Quantitative and Computational Reasoning, a distribution requirement that forces humanity students to do math again.
Quadrangle Club, n. Sign-in club commonly known as “Quad.” It’s the club with the best drinks because it has a license to serve hard liquor. The eating club Jeff Bezos ’86 belonged to.
RCA, abbrev. Residential college adviser. An upperclass student who lives in your hall and provides free food (see “study break”), condoms, and answers to questions like what to do when your roommate hasn’t showered in five weeks. See “Zee group.”
Reading period, n. Week and a half to catch up on work at the end of each semester. Originally intended as time to do independent research, it is now a time to sleep in until 2 p.m. and to read and write everything you haven’t in the past semester. Dean’s Date happens at the end.
Recal.io, n. Website students use to plan their courses for each semester. Has all possible courses and precepts so students can optimize their classes.
Residential college, n. Your home at Princeton for at least your first two years of college. There are now seven residential colleges on campus: Rocky, Mathey, Butler, First, Whitman, Forbes, Yeh, and New College West. Each college varies greatly in amenities, types of rooms, and location, but they all provide a sense of community, and more importantly, a source of free gear.
Residential College Facebook, n. Great, value-brand Tigerbook, since its apparent collapse. See “Tigerbook.” Easiest way to stalk your peers.
Residential college staff, n. Well-meaning faculty members who work for your residential college and have varying degrees of helpfulness. Skilled at clogging your email inbox. Includes the Head of College, Dean of College, Director of Studies, and Director of Student Life.
Reunions, n. Beer-saturated gathering of alumni during the weekend before Commencement for drinking, fellowship, and the P-Rade. Good excuse for students to delay returning home for a week at the end of the year. Reportedly the event with the second-highest level of alcohol consumption, after only the Indy 500. See “P-Rade.”
Richardson Auditorium, n. Enormous performance hall located up-campus across from Blair Arch.
Rival, n. What Princeton lacks as the third wheel in HYP. What Penn thinks we are.
Rocky College, abbrev. Rockefeller College. Northernmost residential college known for gorgeous Gothic architecture.
Rocks for Jocks, nickname. GEO 103: Natural Disasters. See “P/D/F.”
RoMa, nickname. Rockefeller/Mathey College dining hall. Looks like the Great Hall in Harry Potter; both were modeled after Oxford.
Room draw, n. Computerized process by which students select rooms for the upcoming year. Conspiracy theories abound about the supposed randomness of the process: People with high social security numbers, third letters of their last names near the end of the alphabet, and Minnesota addresses may receive better times.
Route 1, n. A large, divided road about a five-minute drive from campus along which real-world institutions like movie theaters, malls, Walmarts, discount liquor stores, and chain restaurants can be found. Proof that you are, in fact, in New Jersey.
Rush, v. To move very quickly toward something. n. 1. An aquatic plant. 2. A process you are forbidden to know anything about. Shhh.
SA, abbrev. Social Analysis. Distribution requirement that can be fulfilled by a large variety of courses in the realm of humanities and social science.
Safety school, 1. n. Yale, Harvard, Penn, etc. 2. phrase. Popular chant at basketball games regardless of opponent.
SEL, abbrev. Science and Engineering with Lab, a self-explanatory distributional requirement. See “Bridges.”
SEN, abbrev. Science and Engineering, Nonlaboratory, a self-explanatory distribution requirement. See “Physics for Future Leaders.”
Sexile, v. To render your roommate homeless after a successful date or night out. Etiquette in case of sexile should be discussed with your roommate ASAP.
Shared meal plan, n. A system by which one can be a member of both an eating club and a residential college, with meals split between the two. Also known as the dream. The number of slots available vary widely by club.
Sign-in club, n. Eating club that takes members through a lottery system rather than Bicker. Also has convoluted variants. See “Charter.”
Squirrel, n. A furry friend and foe. Cute when scurrying around campus. Pesky when scavenging in your dorm room. Scary when rabid. Not scared of people. Comes in brown, gray, and black varieties.
Sororities, n. pl. Groups of women who gather together to take pictures in dresses and “network.” There are only three at this school: Kappa Kappa Gamma (“Kappa”), Pi Beta Phi (“Pi Phi”), and Kappa Alpha Theta (“Theta”). First-years are not allowed to rush Greek organizations. It may be your ticket into a bicker club, or a way for people to instantly stereotype you.
SPIA, abbrev. School of Public and International Affairs. Formerly selective concentration for students interested in becoming bankers or consultants and learning the language of bureaucracy, as well as those rare folk who actually do want to save the world through government (but will probably end up in banking or consulting).
SPIA fountain, n. Idyllic fountain and pool located in Scudder Plaza, north of Robertson Hall. The entire student body can be found taking photos here pre-Lawnparties. Popular wading spot in the spring, especially after SPIA theses are submitted. Beware of skateboarders.
Stars for Stoners, nickname. AST 203: The Universe. Purported to actually be a somewhat difficult class involving actual equations. See “P/D/F.”
St. A’s, n. “Secret” literary society with unclear purpose and unknown meaning. See “Ivy Club,” “the Nass.”
Street, the, nickname. Prospect Avenue, home of the eating clubs and center of University nightlife.
Studio 34, n. Late-night convenience store in the basement of Butler College known for its French bread pizzas.
Study break, n. Code for free food. At any given time, there is a high chance some study break is happening around campus. Most common benefactors of study breaks include res colleges, RCAs, and clubs.
Terrace Club, n. Sign-in club known for artsy types, vegans and stoners. Popular end-of-night stop for all of campus. The only eating club not actually located on Prospect Avenue.
Thesis, n. The T word. Major senior pastime, required of every A.B. student and some B.S.E. students. Most are close to 100 pages. Often replaces socialization, exercise, happiness, etc. in the spring.
T.I., abbrev. Tiger Inn. Bicker club known for raucous, beer-soaked parties and heavy preponderance of bros.
Tiger, n. 1. Princeton student or athlete. 2. Mascot dressed in tiger-skin suit who capers and cavorts at football games while trying to avoid attacks by the opponent’s band. 3. Campus humor magazine of erratic quality and publication schedule. 4. Striped predatory jungle cat.
Tiger Confessions, n. Facebook page run by an anonymous student where students can submit any thoughts, questions, ideas, etc. they have. Keeps getting shut down, but keeps returning in slightly different iterations. Like a cat, it seems to have nine lives.
Tigerbook, n. Database containing every Princeton student and information such as their class year, major, and most importantly, a photo. The single-most useful tool you will encounter in your time at Princeton. Not always operational. For an alternative, see “Residential College Facebook.”
TigerHub, n. Poorly named and poorly designed software to fulfill administrative duties such as enrolling in courses and checking grades. Have to reload the page three times before it works.
Tower Club, n. Bicker club known for first-year-friendly dance floor and taproom, as well as heavy preponderance of theater types, a cappella groups, and SPIA majors.
Triangle Club, n. Undergraduate musical theater group that writes and stages an annual extravaganza of song, slapstick and dance. Famous for the drag kickline and alumnus Jimmy Stewart ’32.
Twenty-One (21) Club, n. Secret drinking organization founded in 1881, composed of 42 male juniors and seniors who consume 21 beers in 42 minutes at an annual contest. Members are culled from bicker clubs, fraternities, and sports teams.
USG, abrrev. n. Undergraduate Student Government. A group of aspiring politicians who are responsible for the multiple free orange t-shirts shoved into the back of your dresser.”
Up-campus, adj. n. Located on the part of campus closer to Nassau Street, up the hill. Begins around Dillon Gym and extends through Rocky. Synonym: “north.” Usage: “From here, go up-campus to find Brown.”
U-Store, n. Officially, the Princeton University Store. Located at 36 University Place, across from Blair Arch. Sells food, dorm items, and school supplies. Overpriced, but great location.
Wa, The, n. Campus colloquialism for the Wawa convenience store. Located between the Dinky and Forbes. Popular late night meal spot, but prepare to wait an egregious amount of time on nights out.
Whig-Clio, abbrev. The American Whig-Cliosophic Society. Centuries-old debate society that hosts such topical events as the Annual Latke versus Hamantaschen Debate.
Whitman College, n. Residential college that bears a striking resemblance to the castle in Shrek. As the newest college, built in 2007, it has air conditioning and very nice rooms.
WPRB, n. Student-run, community-supported independent radio station located in the basement of Bloomberg Hall. See “Terrace Club.”
Writing Center, n. Single-handedly responsible for helping first-years survive writing sem. Offers individual appointments to help at any point in the writing process.
Yeh College, n. One of Princeton’s newest pair of residential colleges. Located on the far-southern end of campus. Hybrid Dr. Seuss-Soviet architecture. See “New College West.”
Zee group, abbrev. Group of advisees. The 20 or so first-years frequently found under the wing of a residential college adviser. May or may not become close friends over the course of the year. Statistically, at least one permutation within the group will hook up.
The 25th anniversary of Dean’s Date also marked its end. Beginning in Spring 2025, deadlines for final written assignments will be staggered throughout the final exam period.
Dean’s Date has been the universal deadline for all final papers, projects, and problem sets since 1999, and it is typically celebrated with late-night breakfasts and midnight screaming on the eve of Dean’s Date, as well as performances from the University band throughout the day.
The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) is currently communicating with different departments, the Office of the Dean of the College, and faculty to determine the logistics of the change, including ensuring exams and paper deadlines are appropriately spaced.
“The goal for this change is that it would ultimately improve students’ wellbeing and mental health by making sure all deadlines and exams are staggered in such a short amount of time period,” Enzo Kho ’26, USG president-elect and current Social Chair, told The Daily Princetonian.
From 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. on Dean’s Date, Friday Dec. 13, USG offered free bagels, drip coffee, and hot chocolate in Firestone Plaza. The rest of the celebrations began at 5 p.m. in the U-Store Courtyard, and featured performances from the band.
Students lined up in below-freezing temperatures to get a 25th anniversary Dean’s Date crewneck as well as free Madeleine’s Cheesecake, Nomad Pizza, Travelin’ Tom’s Drinks, and Tico’s Belgian Waffle Sundaes. With only 1,000 sweatshirts available, students started arriving over an hour before the celebrations began.
Kho described it as “one of the most successful Dean’s Date celebrations” he has seen.
Misimi Sanni ’28, a member of the USG Social Committee who helped lead the project, told the ‘Prince’ that the celebration is “just a way for the community to come together and celebrate the end of assignments.”
Regarding the end of Dean’s Date, she said, “I know it does cause a lot of stress for people, so maybe that’s a way to alleviate the stress.”
Some students at the event complained about excessive lines, and attendance reached a peak of over 1,500 students at 5:50 p.m. Sarabeth Yao ’28 wrote to the ‘Prince’ that she arrived at 4 p.m and there was already “around 50 people in line” for the crewnecks.
“The line continued to expand rapidly,” Yao wrote. “There were a lot of people skipping the line and joining their friends, especially once it got closer to 5 p.m.,” she continued. Yao ended up waiting for an hour and ten minutes.
Multiple students at the event expressed their views about the end of Dean’s Date. Shabab Zaman ’26 told the ‘Prince’ in an interview, “Dean’s Date was something that I used to look forward to. I was like, okay, this is a set benchmark. I can finish my papers by then, because I can’t work without deadlines.”
Owen Yang ’26 explained that although he did not have a lot of work due on Dean’s Date, he was not excited for it to end. “I like having a separation between my tests and written work, so it’s very sad to have to see it go,” he said.
Cassadie Royalty ’25 told the ‘Prince’ that the end of Dean’s Date is “kind of sad, because I really enjoy the celebration. I usually actually play with the band. So it’s a little bit sad for us, because last night was the last time we would play in Firestone, potentially.”
She added, “I think it’ll ultimately be better for A.B. students to have their papers not due all at the same time.”
“That excitement, you know, the midnight screaming and all that stuff. I’m gonna miss those,” Zaman said. “I’m gonna miss Dean’s Date, not gonna lie, but it’s for the better.”
Sena Chang is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Olivia Sanchez is an associate News editor for the ‘Prince.’ She is from New Jersey and often covers the graduate school and academic departments.
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.There is a legend that 50 percent of Princetonians — or 75 percent, depending on who you ask — end up marrying other Princetonians. This myth has been told on Orange Key Tours, written about in the New York Times, and passed through many students, though no one can pinpoint exactly where it came from.
Around 50 Princetonian marriages take place at the Princeton University Chapel each year. To exit those heavy oak doors as a wedded couple is a privilege granted only to Princetonians or someone marrying a Princetonian. The venue is available for students, staff, faculty, alumni, emeritus faculty, and the children of each of those categories, according to Reverend Alison Boden, Dean of Religious Life and of the Chapel.
“That [policy] is only to make sure the chapel is available to Princetonians who want to use it,” Boden said, “or all the world would love to use this space.”
When couples write to Boden to book the chapel for their weddings, they often include personal anecdotes from their relationship.
“Sometimes, they’ll just tell me about how much the chapel meant to them as undergrad[s] or grads, if they met here,” Boden said. “All the time they spent here either just giving themselves a break from Firestone in the evening and just sitting there, chilling, praying, or getting themselves centered. Other times they tell me how meaningful the place was because of all the religious services they went to or they sang in the choir.”
Students’ experiences at Princeton can lead to relationships that last beyond the day they walk out of FitzRandolph Gate. The campus holds a special place in the hearts of those who find the love of their life here. But what is it like to find true love in the Orange Bubble, and how common is it? With Valentine’s Day on the horizon, I spoke with four Tiger couples to find out.
“We just kept bumping into each other throughout college,” said Liz Hoffman ’93 when describing how she and her husband, Mark Hoffman ’93, met all those years ago.
The pair first crossed paths in a Spanish class during the first semester of their first year.
Their first date was at the Garden Theater, where they watched the movie Glory, a civil war drama. Despite the movie being “not super romantic,” as described by Liz, the pair walked home together and shared their first kiss beneath Joline Arch. They officially started dating in the spring of that year.
After a few months of dating, they decided to go separate ways at the end of the year. “We both remember the talk at the [SPIA] fountain which resulted in the friendzone,” said Liz. “It was a mutual understanding.”
Mark remembers it differently. “She broke up with me,” he said.
Looking back on the experience now, they agreed it was the right call. It allowed them to spread their wings and experience different parts of Princeton separately. The two found different friend groups and joined different eating clubs, with Liz in Charter Club and Mark in Campus Club.
“It was nice because we were able to share a lot of things, but then also have our own experiences,” said Liz.
Though they went separate ways, they continued to run into each other and remained friends throughout their time at Princeton.
Liz recalled a time senior year when she and her mom were moving her back into her dorm in Little Hall. As they were carrying heavy boxes in the rain, they ran into Mark. “I introduced them, and they just chat[ted] and chat[ted]. No one was helping me move in, and I [was] getting kind of annoyed,” said Liz.
“I knew what I was doing,” said Mark. “I should’ve been helping her move her heavy boxes in, but I was having a nice conversation with her mom … You always gotta make sure that the mom is happy. ”
After that introduction, any time Liz would complain about her love life to her mom that year, her mom would respond with: “Well, what about that cute boy in the parking lot? There’s always the cute boy in the parking lot.”
“And so now I like to joke that this was an arranged marriage by my mom,” said Liz.
Near the end of senior year, with a lot more time on their hands, the pair found their way back to each other. “I want to give hope to all the seniors everywhere that there is life after your senior thesis,” said Liz. “You will have a lot more time. We had a lot more time.”
They both agreed it was after they turned in their theses when things started to get serious between them again. Attending the P-Rade together was a moment that really stood out to Mark.
“As the P-Rade goes by, we’re standing there in front of Clio Hall, and she takes my hand,” said Mark. “I was over the moon. I remember thinking: ‘I’m not gonna let go of her hand.’”
And he didn’t. After a bit of long-distance dating post-graduation, in which Liz’s mother always asked “Why couldn’t you have dated this boy when [he] was in the next dorm,” the pair got married. Many of their Princeton pals attended the wedding.
The two now live in Seattle with their three kids — two of whom now also attend Princeton. Their son, Ryan Hoffman ’25, met his girlfriend, Nina Boudet ’25, the second week of school and they became best friends for their first six months at school before dating.
“Nina was my first close friend when I arrived, and I’m insanely lucky that such a genuine friendship has become so much more,” said Ryan. “I can’t believe I met my future wife only two weeks into Princeton.”
The name in the Hoffman’s family joint email address is “5 tigers.”
“It is kind of remarkable that Mark and I stayed in touch all those years, but I think it has to do with the size of Princeton,” said Liz. “There are some Princeton elements that are unique to Princeton. I think that kind of lends itself to staying in touch, staying connected.”
Though the couple does not remember exactly how they first met, Pythias Temesgen ’09 and Natalia Temesgen ’08 remember a few interactions that kickstarted a long and valuable friendship during their time at Princeton. While Pythias was working as the Frist building supervisor, Natalia worked at the Frist Welcome Desk, and they crossed paths frequently during this period.
“I remember meeting Natalia my [first] year at Frist, and making small talk, thinking she was really cool,” said Pythias.
They recalled the day Natalia got fired from working at the Frist Welcome Desk.
“She got the email [that fired her] when she was asleep, and she rushed to Frist before reading it. It was super awkward,” Pythias said, adding, “and then I lost the [building] keys for like three hours and didn’t tell anyone.” They both laughed, reflecting on the mess of that day. But that was how they remember it starting: at the Frist Welcome Desk, interacting as employees, before becoming friends.
When Pythias was named president of the Black Student Union, Natalia was head of the Black Arts Company and a part of Expressions Dance Company. The pair would frequently trade emails about happenings within both of those groups.
Later, when Natalia’s then-boyfriend was unable to go to Cap and Gown formals with her, it was Pythias who tagged along.
“We have the photo from that night in front of the Cap stairs,” said Natalia. “We looked like babies, beautiful babies though.”
It was the summer after Natalia’s junior year when things started to change. “We went from being sort of in the same friend group networks to being really good friends,” said Pythias.
“I remember the summer before my senior year, we would talk on the phone a lot,” said Natalia. “This would be the kind of phone calls that people who fall in love have. You know, two hour phone calls, but we both just enjoyed each other’s minds so much and made each other laugh.”
When asked when Pythias started to like her, he answered, “from the very beginning. I don’t think there was ever a time when I was not thinking [she] was incredible.” Despite bringing the idea of a relationship up a few times with Natalia, her response was often the same: “Don’t be ridiculous.”
It was after they both had graduated that that response changed. On Pythias’s birthday, he visited her in New York. When asked what he wanted for his birthday, his answer was “to go out with [Natalia].” Her first instinct was to shut it down, to use their friendship as an excuse, but something made her consider it this time.
“I remember it took maybe a couple days to think about it,” Natalia explained. “I talked to some friends about it, and I prayed about it. I took it very seriously.” The primary concern was ruining their years-long friendship. After much thinking, she came to a conclusion.
“I think I trust our friendship enough that this can’t break our friendship,” Natalia noted. “I think that even if this is a mistake, we can still be friends. So let’s just try it.”
“Even though our road has been a little bumpy, there’s always been a through line of ‘well, how do I improve, and how can we help each other do that?’” said Natalia. She noted that maybe this was a reason a lot of Princetonians marry other Princetonians — a certain reflective quality that always pushes them to be more.
“It’s not nerdiness, per say, but just a sort of aspirational quality of thirst for [knowledge],” she said.
In 2012, they got married, and in 2013, they welcomed their first child.
The Princeton University Chapel is a meaningful location for Shelby Brainard ’22 and Katherine Brainard ’19. It’s the spot where Shelby would play the organ while Katherine studied, the spot where they would worship, the spot where Shelby proposed, and eventually the spot where they were married.
The pair met for the first time during a first-year-only study break that Katherine, a senior at the time, was crashing for the free acai bowls. Shelby had just returned from a Bridge Year in Indonesia, and he immediately caught Katherine’s eye.
“I saw this guy standing there with a vintage Princeton sweater through the doorway of the Mathey Common Room, and I made a comment to my friend. He looked so classy, like a vintage Princeton postcard,” said Katherine.
As luck would have it, Katherine’s friend knew Shelby and introduced the pair. What’s more, the pair also shared a Christian ethics class, were both part of the Christian Union (formerly known as Princeton Faith and Action), and both lived in Mathey.
“We just started bumping into each other a bunch and got along really well,” said Katherine.
For their first date, they went to Teresa’s Pizza for dinner, the Bent Spoon for dessert, then to Princeton’s swing dance club to end the night.
After a few months of dating, Shelby created a scavenger hunt around campus for Katherine. It was based on all the places around campus that were meaningful to them. The game included places like Murray-Dodge Café, where they spent hours hanging out and playing chess, and Tower Club, where Katherine was a member. The date ended at Joseph Henry House, where Shelby had set up a candle-lit Italian dinner.
Shelby returned to this theme for his proposal. The proposal started at Nassau Hall and toured around the campus, stopping at all the places that were significant to the couple. At each location, a close friend or family member would greet Katherine, “reading from a scroll [her] life story in fairytale language.”
At each stop, she also got a word. By the time they reached the last location, the chapel, the words added up to one sentence: “Katherine, will you marry me?”
Shelby had originally planned to propose in Prospect Garden, but rain spelled a change of plans. He shifted his plan, complete with a trio of musicians, to the chapel. The pair got married in the exact spot where Shelby proposed.
“I think you go through the fire while you’re at Princeton, in that it’s a place where you’re really refined. You are pushed to your limits, and what’s beautiful about your Princeton relationships and friendships is that you’ve done it together.” said Katherine. “I think it gives you a better understanding of your spouse. You are able to understand them on a deep, deep level only a Princetonian can truly appreciate.”
Haley Choueiri ’25 was sure she wasn’t going to become a part of the 50–75 percent statistic her RCA told her in her first year. But two years later, I sat across the table from her and her wife, Reema Choueiri ’25, as they recounted their love story to me. The two met through a mutual friend who connected them via Instagram. After a few weeks of exchanging DMs, they switched to texting, which turned into a first date at Junbi.
Their first date was seven hours long. After leaving Junbi, they didn’t want to say goodbye. So, they walked three miles along the towpath into another town, just chatting away. They had dinner before walking the towpath back to campus.
They started dating a few weeks later when Reema elaborately asked Haley to be her girlfriend through a Spotify playlist that spelled out, through songs, the question: Haley, will you be my girlfriend?
“We walked across the middle of [Poe Field] at night, and it was so romantic, and the stars were out,” said Haley, speaking about that experience.
Nearly two years later, the pair is married and lives in married housing on campus as they finish out their junior year.
“It first started out as a joke,” said Haley, “We like to travel a lot, and we’d see the county magistrate office, and I [would be] like ‘What if we got married right now?’ And then eventually, it wasn’t a joke anymore.”
Reema proposed a year after they started dating, on a hike that overlooked New York City.
“When you know, you know,” she said, smiling.
The uniqueness of their marriage is not lost on them. Whenever she mentions her wife in class or somewhere else, she gets a variety of responses, often shock.
“But it’s been really heartwarming to see the reaction and reception from other people. [They] really root for us,” added Haley.
Haley also shares details about married life while in college on her Instagram profile. She’s posted wedding photos, answered questions about married housing, and more.
“I think a lot about our presence on social media,” she said. “Sometimes that’s a source of stress and targeting for queer people, but then it also can be a source of strength for the community and representation a lot of people need and love.”
They got married in Haley’s hometown of Fayetteville, NC over the summer. They had time to honeymoon and relax in Reema’s hometown of Charlotte, NC, before returning to school for their junior year.
“I love telling my friends I have a wife,” said Haley.
Dean Boden, who oversees all applications for chapel weddings, said she only sees a handful of intra-Princeton marriages.
“[Applicants] definitely tell me in their letter that they met while at Princeton, but that’s a minority of people,” said Dean Boden. “I would say a majority of people are [cases where only] one has a Princeton affiliation.”
I asked the couples what they made of this myth. Some had heard it for the first time when I told them, while others were familiar with it. However, few of the couples agreed that the statistic was actually that high.
Pythias and Natalia said they would lower the statistic to around 20–30 percent, Mark and Liz placed the figure around 20 percent, and Shelby and Katherine predicted it was in the 7–10 percent range. Haley and Reema were more optimistic, suggesting the statistic might be around 50 percent.
While the Choueiris admit they may be biased in thinking the statistic is 50 percent, they do have a hypothesis to back it up. They proposed that in coming back to Reunions, many alums reconnect and boost the figure.
The Hoffmans observed this when returning for their 30th Reunion.
“There seemed to be a lot more people who had married other Princetonians than at the time [as undergrads],” said Mark.
So, maybe this supposed group of 50–75 percent of Princetonians aren’t finding each other on campus, but after, in life post-graduation. Whether true or not, this myth acknowledges something special about Princeton. The small, tight knit undergraduate body can give way to some long-lasting relationships. Pythias expressed that these special relationships make the Princeton experience all the more worthwhile.
“Folks are attracted to Princeton I think for the same reason why a bunch of Princetonians marry,” Pythias said. “It’s because it’s so undergraduate-focused, and it’s so intensely about this small, tight knit group.”
Katie Thiers is a staff Features writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.In Spring 2023, there were 82 rooms remaining after upperclass draw ended. This year, there were 17.
On Monday, April 1, upperclass students began the draw process into the 696 rooms available on Princeton’s campus. The process started at 9:30 a.m. that morning and lasted through 1:48 p.m. on Wednesday, April 10. Room draw into residential colleges and for independent upperclass students was completed on Thursday, March 28, after room draw for New College West was repeated due to technical difficulties.
The Daily Princetonian downloaded multiple lists of the available rooms on the Housing Portal each day for the eight days room draw took place. Similar to last year, students significantly preferred fewer roommates.
Singles were once again the most popular room size, dramatically decreasing in number over the first four days. Upperclass draw began with 351 singles available to upperclass students on April 1. By the time groups solely composed of juniors began drawing on April 5, there were around 39 available. According to the available room lists, around three hours into the rising junior draw, no more singles were available.
“Our original plan was to stay [in our residential college],” Janny Eng ’25, who drew in a group ninth overall in the upperclass draw, said. “We wanted singles, and we thought it’d be our best bet,” she said. When she discovered the news that her group had randomly been assigned a good draw time, she noted that they “started looking at other areas on campus” and broadened her search for singles across campus.
At the beginning of the draw, Scully Hall and Pyne Hall had the first and second most rooms available respectively with 104 and 102 rooms available. The two halls were also the most popular among drawn rooms early on. Around half of the rooms in each hall were taken by the end of the third day — one full day prior to the beginning of the rising junior draw.
When looking at the first halls to run out of rooms, Scully Hall filled its rooms first followed by Dod Hall and Wright Hall — two halls considered to be in a more central campus location.
“The first thing — obviously avoid construction,” Ally Robertson ’26 said. “I wanted to be close to the Arc[hitecture] building … and close to Frist.” Within her draw group, “the one that wants [a room] more south on campus is an athlete.”
Robertson was on the final page of the room draw times list alongside five members of her draw group. They originally planned for two triples, but no triples were available at their draw time. At their draw time of 1:39 p.m. on April 10, the available room list had not been updated since 10:11 a.m. that morning.
“Construction is actually a pretty big factor,” Pippa LaMacchia ’26 said. “I have friends in upperclass [student] housing who are woken up at seven in the morning every day because of construction.”
LaMacchia drew with two others on the final time of the upperclass draw.
The average square footage of different room types was consistently smaller day after day. If an upperclass student was drawing a single on the last day they were available, the single was an average of 46 square feet smaller than those available at the start of the draw.
“Obviously I want a bigger room — but if I can get a single, that’s all that matters,” Robertson said.
Parker Hill ’25 and her two draw-mates utilized their first pick to get a spacious room in Wright Hall, notably a less popular hall. In weighing their options, the group “sorted by square footage.”
“We found out once we had the first [draw] time that so many good rooms are actually unavailable,” Hill said. “A lot of our senior friends that have great rooms, we looked them up and they were not on the list.”
For those who were unable or didn’t draw into a room during their draw time, the waitlist is accepting applications through the deadline of April 29. The order of the waitlist is determined by original room selection time and housing will be assigned around mid-July. Housing is guaranteed for all undergraduates.
Vincent Etherton is a contributing Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Each year, first-years, sophomores, and juniors can find their housing arrangements for the upcoming academic year through the room draw process. While some students received rooms in February through the medical accommodations process, most students will draw for rooms from mid-March to early April in groups ranging in size from one to eight individuals. Using a random algorithm that gives preference to higher class years, the University assigned a draw time to each group.
This year, 1,852 rooms ranging from single-person bedrooms to six-person suites are available during room draw, a decrease from the 1,890 rooms available in 2023. These rooms are divided into ten separate draws: seven residential college draws, a draw for general upperclass housing, a draw for independent students, and a draw for Spelman Hall. The upperclass draw has 63 fewer available rooms compared to 2023, the greatest drop among all the draws. In contrast, the Whitman draw increased by 31 rooms, while New College West’s draw shrunk by 27 rooms.
“All first-year rooms are withheld from Room Draw so that the incoming class can be assigned to ’Zee group zones that are geographically centered around their RCA,” University Spokesperson Jennifer Morrill wrote in email to The Daily Princetonian.
“There are also several pre-draw assignments that occur for student staff positions, students with approved housing accommodations, and certain living-learning communities (such as the Edwards Collective and the 2D Co-op). Generally, the size of the incoming and outgoing classes and facilities projects do not play a role in what rooms are available for Room Draw.”
Consistent with last year, the largest draw is the upperclass draw, while the smallest draw is Spelman, which has only 52 quads. With 116 rooms available this year, the Rockefeller draw is the smallest of the residential college draws. While the largest draw last year was New College West, with 174 available rooms, Whitman’s 185 available rooms make it the largest draw this year.
Nearly three quarters of the available rooms in the Whitman and Butler draws are singles, the greatest proportion among the residential colleges. Older residential colleges tend to have fewer singles, with only half of the rooms available in Rockefeller and Mathey Colleges being singles. Forbes College is unique for having very few triples and no quads, with all but eight triples in the Forbes draw being singles and doubles.
There are just four quints — five-person rooms — on campus. Two of the four available quints are in Hamilton and Little as part of Mathey College and the other two quints are in upperclass halls Cuyler and Laughlin. The largest quint, Hamilton 324, has 957 square feet of space, making it the seventh largest room on campus. Six six-person suites are all in the upperclass draw. One of these six-person suites, Patton T12, has two floors and 1278 square feet, the largest available on campus.
The smallest available room, Pyne 230, has only 82 square feet and is also part of the upperclass draw. The ten largest available rooms have not changed from last year. However, Forbes Annex 422, which has 90 square feet and was the fifth smallest available room last year, is not on this year's list.
Unlike last year, there are no rooms available for draw in Walker Hall this year. After the University converted Walker Hall to graduate housing, undergraduates who drew into Walker received an email over the summer notifying them they would be reassigned to other housing.
In all of the residential college draws, most groups are made up of a single person. Draw groups consist of one, two, or four students at the highest frequencies, which is consistent with the top three available room types for every draw. In the upperclass draw, almost a quarter of all students are in four-person groups, a greater proportion than all the residential college draws. The Rockefeller draw only includes one available triple but has eight three-person draw groups.
In all except the Yeh, Whitman, and upperclass draws, the number of single-person draw groups exceeds the number of available singles. Last year, the number of available singles ran out before the draw times of over half the rising sophomore class. On March 20, Associate Director of Student Housing Angie Rooney sent an email with room draw tips to those drawing into Yeh College the following day, warning of the lack of singles.
“There may not be very many singles for sophomores at all,” Rooney wrote. “If you are in a draw group alone, your first best option is to find someone on the draw list that you could live with in a suite (double, triple or quad). You can use the drop down option to select to drop down into a group and then draw into a larger room with that group.”
After Yeh draw was completed, only six quads remained, all in the two furthest south buildings. After the Butler draw, which ended on March 20, only four quads remained.
“Initially I was thinking about either getting a single/quingle (four singles within a quad) in Bloomberg, but then I settled on trying to get a single in any Butler building,” Aidan Wang ‘27 wrote in an email to the ‘Prince.’ “It was a bit stressful due to the uncertainty of being put on a waitlist as there were no singles left long before my draw time.”
Wang‘s draw time was at the end of page eight of ten for the Butler draw.
Students can search for buildings to draw into and compare options on the Housing and Real Estate Services website. The TigerApps website TigerDraw contains data on many dorm rooms, including occupancy, square footage, and room reviews for some rooms — though the website notes that the data comes from the 2017 and 2019 draws and may be out of date.
The room draw process this year began on Monday, March 18, and will conclude on Wednesday, April 10. Students who were unsuccessful in selecting a room during the draw process and wish to receive University housing next year must apply for the wait list by April 29. Housing is guaranteed for students all four years.
Alexa Wingate is an assistant Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Kate Alvarez is a contributing Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any corrections requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As they roll out new guidelines for the 2025–26 academic year, the Office of Disability Services (ODS) has opted to discontinue their policy of allowing students with housing accommodations to select, in advance of regular room draw, another student as a pre-drawmate: a student they want to live near and with whom they are particularly comfortable. For the 2025–26 academic year, such students are on their own. Instead of a pre-draw system that pairs particular students together, ODS will now require students interested in living near those with housing accommodations to simply “prioritize selecting a room near [them]” during the regular room draw process.
Of course, the University should strive to improve accessibility across the campus community. As suggested by August Roberts in their recent guest contribution, the University should continue to build accessible buildings, including buildings with accessible bathrooms, more rooms with private bathroom access, and more gender-neutral single-stall bathrooms.
But changing housing guidelines reflects a systemic disregard for student well-being and community care. Identifying and living alongside pre-drawmates allows students with housing accommodations to engage in community care: finding safety, healing, and support in a circle of close and connected individuals. The University’s failure to model these expectations reflects an inability to prioritize student safety and happiness. This is symptomatic of a deeper need to prioritize community care, especially for already-vulnerable students.
When asked by Roberts why they’ve removed drawmates from the pre-draw process, ODS cited “procedural reasons” and “safety concerns” — but for whom? It’s clear that the students most at risk from an inability to choose a drawmate are those students seeking housing accommodations. This move is arguably towards convenience for the University administration, who have to balance both a student’s necessary accommodations and keeping enough rooms available to the wider student body when assigning rooms during pre-draw. Without a drawmate for those seeking housing accommodations, there are fewer students to manually assign to rooms.
The lack of care shown for students with housing accommodations in this instance resembles the accidental leak of students’ information in an email during the pre-draw process for the 2023–24 academic year. Students’ specific needs and housing assignments were shared with many other students; although this was accidental, it was nevertheless non-consensual.
As a senior graduating in May, I’m not participating in the 2025 room draw process. However, were I to live on campus next year, I would be applying through the pre-draw process. The prospect of a pre-draw process without a drawmate would scare me. As Roberts reflects, without my support system, I would not have gotten through Princeton, especially considering the added stress of independent work during junior and senior year. I would likely have opted for a single with no private bathroom access, as opposed to a Jack-and-Jill.
The inability to elect a drawmate will likely force students to prioritize certain needs, instead of allowing the pre-draw process to address all needs holistically. As students, we are continuously supporting each other and filling in the gaps caused by the University’s demonstrated lack of care. In fact, in the absence of action from the University, students have always picked up the pieces. Students are also modeling community care practices, including organizing intentional community healing spaces after the election, but most notably through service in the community beyond the campus: historically helping Black communities maintain homeownership, collaborating with local activist groups, and volunteering off-campus, to name a few. If students can clearly live by the commitments of community care, why can’t the University? Their superficial attempt at a Community Care Day failed to live up to students’ standards — many of us didn’t engage in programming because it felt shallow.
In light of the overturning of executive orders that enforced DEI expectations and the decentering of the safety and well-being of marginalized and underrepresented communities on college campuses, the University must model real care for their students in light of the current political climate, especially those students whose identities, disabilities, and health conditions place their futures and wellbeing in increasing uncertainty. It should be a right, not a matter of chance, to feel connected, valued, and secure on campus.
The decision to remove drawmates presents an opportunity for us to engage in a long-overdue conversation about community care standards on campus. This is a conversation that has already been happening among students, which has led to our community care efforts. But it’s more necessary now than ever for the University to support its students.
Asa Santos is a senior majoring in Anthropology from London and São Paulo, and minoring in Gender & Sexuality Studies and Global Health & Health Policy. Santos’ column, “Opening the Gates,” runs every two weeks on Tuesdays. All of their columns can be read here.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.Count yourselves lucky, Class of 2029. Your rooms are already set aside for you. Meanwhile, rising sophomores and some rising juniors and seniors will vie for residential college rooms starting on Wednesday, April 2.
In the upcoming days, students will draw into the various four-year residential college options in a wide range of buildings built from 1877 to 2022.
There are 1,001 rooms available during this year’s residential college draw. Some will end up in a one-room triple or a 99-square-foot trapezoidal single, and one lucky group will find themselves in a 1,115 sq. ft. quad in Whitman, half the size of the median newly-constructed single-family home in the United States.
Butler College’s room draw will start off the set. Each following day, students intending to draw into Forbes, Mathey, New College West, Rockefeller, Whitman, and Yeh will draw in that order. The final day of residential college draw is April 10.
Every year, first-year rooms are withheld from the room draw process so that incoming first years can be assigned to advising groups centered around their Residential College Advisor. Rising sophomores who requested housing accommodations have already been assigned their rooms.
The number of available rooms in each college varies year-by-year depending on the number of rooms reserved for incoming freshmen or students requesting accommodations. The number of available rooms on the upperclass draw list has increased by 11.4 percent — 96 rooms — since last year, even though there are 2,234 students on the list, 40 fewer than last year.
Whitman is offering the most singles this year, with 129 available to the 478 students currently on the Whitman draw list. Rockefeller College, in contrast, has the fewest number of singles up for draw, with 58 rooms available to the 393 students on the draw list.
Students drawing in Butler College have the best chances of getting a “quingle” — a spacious quad with a common room and independent bedrooms for each resident. Butler, with 11 available quingles, is followed by the three newest residential colleges, New College West, Yeh, and Whitman, which each have eight.
For students seeking doubles, Forbes is most plentiful, with 68 two-person rooms available — three times as many as next-in-line Mathey’s 23. However, over 80 percent of two-person rooms offered in Forbes are single-room doubles.
Antoun Salib ’26 is the student in a solo draw group with the first overall pick in the Mathey draw.
“I drew alone, and that’s because I want a single,” Salib told the ‘Prince.’ “I’m really just looking for size and location, so I’m probably just gonna choose the biggest single in Little [Hall],” Salib continued. While Joline Hall and Campbell Hall singles have, on average, 20 additional square feet, Little Hall is more centrally located.
Murley-Pivirotto Tower in Whitman College and 99 Alexander Street, part of Forbes College, have the highest average square footage per resident, with around 197 square feet and 207 square feet respectively.
However, there are discrepancies in the data: According to the University’s officially published available rooms list, Room 205, a two-bedroom double with an en suite bathroom at 99 Alexander Street — colloquially known as the “Pink House” — offers residents 340 square feet each and close proximity to the building’s private kitchen and lounge. Meanwhile, the floor plans of the Pink House show that Room 205 is much smaller than claimed by the university, offering each resident closer to 200 square feet.
The two halls with the lowest average square footage per person are Lauritzen Hall in Whitman and Forbes Main Inn with 134 sq. ft. and 137 sq. ft., most likely due to the high amount of low-square-footage singles in Whitman and the high amount of small single-room doubles in Forbes.
With the exception of quads, Rockefeller College has the highest average square footage among all room types when compared to other residential colleges. On average, Rocky doubles are larger than Forbes triples. However, Forbes has the largest singles.
By the end of the residential college draw, four students will have the opportunity to live in the largest sophomore quad on campus, 1981 F201 in Whitman College, which has 1115 square feet. As one former inhabitant commented on TigerDraw:
“Amazing room! The four singles are all larger than any one person reasonably needs, and the common room is still not crowded with a couch, two armchairs, a futon, a fridge, and a TV on a cabinet.”
Four other students will have the privilege of living in the fifth smallest quad across residential college draw, Campbell 32 in Rockefeller College, which has 422 square feet. On TigerDraw, one reviewer wrote:
“Campbell basically has the smallest quads of any res college. Its possible to debunk only if all of the desks and bookshelves are moved out…Campbell also looks like a WW2 bunker. you get used to it.”
Whether you score a palace in Whitman or a broom closet in Mathey, at the end of the day, it’s all just luck of the draw.
Vincent Etherton is a head Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Alexa Wingate is a head Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Iman Monfopa Kone contributed reporting.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.After over 50 student requests for detailed room dimensions in the past year, Princeton’s Housing and Real Estate Services (HRES) has unveiled significant updates to its housing website. The redesigned website now features updated floor plans with clear annotations of each room’s individual square footage, instead of the previous square footage of each dorm overall.
The website itself has also been updated; now, floor plans have their own dedicated page instead of being hosted within the MyHousing page.
The floor plans were modified between mid-October and mid-February, covering all residential college dorms and upperclass housing, starting with Mathey College and finishing with the upperclass dorm 1901-Laughlin Hall. These new floor plans identify the function of each room, such as “Bedroom,” in addition to the square footage within each room.
Additionally, the floor plans are directly linked to the Housing and Real Estate Services (HRES) website, a change designed to assist current and incoming students ahead of the July 1, 2025, launch of a new housing software platform.
In an email to The Daily Princetonian, University spokesperson Jennifer Morrill wrote that the Housing Office is “hopeful that the revised floor plans will have a positive impact ... for incoming students as they consider what they will bring with them to campus.”
In interviews with the ‘Prince,’ student feedback was overwhelmingly positive, with many expecting these changes to significantly improve their room draw experiences.
However, this doesn’t mean that students don’t have any more suggestions.
Philip Mwendwa ’27, an international student, expressed gratitude for the increased information, but added that he wished they could have “included the information in meters for … the international folk.”
Celestine Kim ’27 and Sonny Lowe ’27 noted they would appreciate having the lists of available rooms updated after every draw group. Currently, the lists of available rooms are updated periodically throughout the day.
Another idea came from Luis Oropeza ’28, who suggested displaying “pictures of the room.” Dowon Seo ’27, on the other hand, wishes there were “different floors on the same PDF.”
This year, residential college draws begin on Tuesday, April 2. The last residential college draw will be Yeh College on April 10.
Upperclass room draws will begin after the residential college draws on Wednesday, April 10. As class sizes expand, the number of rooms remaining after the draw has decreased: in Spring 2023, there were 82 upperclass rooms left, while last year, there were only 17.
Although a limited number of juniors and seniors will draw into their residential colleges, the current number of upperclassmen is 2,998 (1,498 in the Class of 2025 and 1,500 in the Class of 2026). Next year, the total will be 2,866 students, with 1,366 in the Class of 2027, so it is likely that there will be more upperclass rooms available by the end of the draw.
Caleb Bello is a head Newsletter editor and contributing News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Portland, Oregon.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.When students with approved housing accommodations began the pre-draw process for housing in the 2025–26 academic year, they were met with a surprise change: They could no longer select a “drawmate,” another student allowed to draw into the same room or a room nearby their accommodation.
Students can receive housing accommodations for “diagnosed disabilities,” including physical and mental impairments that cause “a material functional deficit,” according to an Office of Disability Services (ODS) webpage. Receiving accommodations requires paperwork from a doctor proving that a student meets this criteria.
According to an archived version of an ODS webpage, in previous years, students with approved accommodations were permitted to have a pre-drawmate who would be placed in the same room or near the student with accommodations. The pre-drawmate did not need to have approved accommodations to pre-draw and was the only way for students with accommodations to indicate preferences for which people live around them.
This change was not announced prior to the beginning of the housing accommodations process on Dec. 15, 2024, although the change was mentioned in a FAQ on the ODS webpage. Students noticed the change when there was no longer an option to select a drawmate in the application for pre-draw.
“Whenever we all found out, obviously people were really upset,” August Roberts ’25, who has disability accommodations, said in an interview with The Daily Princetonian.
“I didn’t even notice because I’m a senior, so I heard [about this change] from other people … lo and behold, [the ability to select a pre-draw mate] wasn’t there,” they continued.
Roberts submitted a guest contribution to the ‘Prince’ about this change.
Trace Zhang ’26 was helping a friend navigate pre-draw when they realized that it was no longer possible to select a pre-draw mate. It took several steps to get clarity on the change.
“We were following up with whether or not the roommate situation would be respected,” Zhang said.
“And the answer was, we are not respecting roommate requests or people you’d be comfortable living with,” Zhang continued.
On Feb. 4, the Housing and Real Estate Services and ODS emailed a joint statement informing students with approved housing accommodations that they were no longer allowed to “bring a draw-mate.” The email was followed by a webinar explaining the changes the next day.
In the email obtained by the ‘Prince,’ both departments informed students that the change was made due to a combination of factors, including an increase in the number of students participating in the pre-draw process and the fact that “most housing accommodations involve requests for single rooms with air conditioning, which are already in short supply.” As a result, the email claimed that the addition of drawmates made it “even more difficult to meet the needs of all students requiring housing accommodations.”
ODS referred to University spokesperson Jennifer Morrill when asked why the changes were made. “Without the implementation of the change the University runs the risk of being unable to meet the needs of students requiring housing accommodations,” Morrill wrote.
The email sent to students also included a section which said that if they “require a caregiver’s presence” for aid in navigating their medical needs, they should contact ODS to request one rather than “relying on others within the residential community.” Jennifer provided a statement to the ‘Prince’ using the same language when asked about what students should do if they wanted a roommate.
Roberts took issue with this response to students with accommodations concerns.
“[The email was] basically saying that if you have a roommate that helps you out sometimes, you might as well have a full time caregiver, which is unrealistic, not what we need, invasive, and expensive,” they said.
Other students were concerned about the possibility of being placed in a single room with a shared bathroom, or a “Jack and Jill,” to share with a stranger. The ODS webpage also states that pre-draw participants can be assigned rooms that are singles or doubles.
“It’s really just a black box of where they’re going to be putting people; who they’re going to be put with,” Zhang continued.
When asked about whether students with accommodations would be placed with random roommates, Morrill wrote that “the vast majority of ODS-issued accommodations approvals are for single sleeping spaces,” but did not provide further clarity as to how students placed in Jack and Jills would be paired.
The University’s recommendation for students with disability housing accommodations hoping to live near their friends is to “encourage others to draw rooms that are near their accommodation housing assignment,” Morrill wrote.
Students who wish to pursue pre-draw have until Feb. 21 to finalize their applications, with contracts being offered on Feb. 27.
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Pensacola, Fla. and typically covers community activism, national higher education, and construction and architecture.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Each year, first-years, sophomores, and juniors can find their housing arrangements for the upcoming academic year through the room draw process. While some students received rooms in February through the medical accommodations process, most students will draw for rooms from mid-March to early April in groups ranging in size from one to eight individuals. Using a random algorithm that gives preference to higher class years, the University assigned a draw time to each group.
This year, 1,852 rooms ranging from single-person bedrooms to six-person suites are available during room draw, a decrease from the 1,890 rooms available in 2023. These rooms are divided into ten separate draws: seven residential college draws, a draw for general upperclass housing, a draw for independent students, and a draw for Spelman Hall. The upperclass draw has 63 fewer available rooms compared to 2023, the greatest drop among all the draws. In contrast, the Whitman draw increased by 31 rooms, while New College West’s draw shrunk by 27 rooms.
“All first-year rooms are withheld from Room Draw so that the incoming class can be assigned to ’Zee group zones that are geographically centered around their RCA,” University Spokesperson Jennifer Morrill wrote in email to The Daily Princetonian.
“There are also several pre-draw assignments that occur for student staff positions, students with approved housing accommodations, and certain living-learning communities (such as the Edwards Collective and the 2D Co-op). Generally, the size of the incoming and outgoing classes and facilities projects do not play a role in what rooms are available for Room Draw.”
Consistent with last year, the largest draw is the upperclass draw, while the smallest draw is Spelman, which has only 52 quads. With 116 rooms available this year, the Rockefeller draw is the smallest of the residential college draws. While the largest draw last year was New College West, with 174 available rooms, Whitman’s 185 available rooms make it the largest draw this year.
Nearly three quarters of the available rooms in the Whitman and Butler draws are singles, the greatest proportion among the residential colleges. Older residential colleges tend to have fewer singles, with only half of the rooms available in Rockefeller and Mathey Colleges being singles. Forbes College is unique for having very few triples and no quads, with all but eight triples in the Forbes draw being singles and doubles.
There are just four quints — five-person rooms — on campus. Two of the four available quints are in Hamilton and Little as part of Mathey College and the other two quints are in upperclass halls Cuyler and Laughlin. The largest quint, Hamilton 324, has 957 square feet of space, making it the seventh largest room on campus. Six six-person suites are all in the upperclass draw. One of these six-person suites, Patton T12, has two floors and 1278 square feet, the largest available on campus.
The smallest available room, Pyne 230, has only 82 square feet and is also part of the upperclass draw. The ten largest available rooms have not changed from last year. However, Forbes Annex 422, which has 90 square feet and was the fifth smallest available room last year, is not on this year's list.
Unlike last year, there are no rooms available for draw in Walker Hall this year. After the University converted Walker Hall to graduate housing, undergraduates who drew into Walker received an email over the summer notifying them they would be reassigned to other housing.
In all of the residential college draws, most groups are made up of a single person. Draw groups consist of one, two, or four students at the highest frequencies, which is consistent with the top three available room types for every draw. In the upperclass draw, almost a quarter of all students are in four-person groups, a greater proportion than all the residential college draws. The Rockefeller draw only includes one available triple but has eight three-person draw groups.
In all except the Yeh, Whitman, and upperclass draws, the number of single-person draw groups exceeds the number of available singles. Last year, the number of available singles ran out before the draw times of over half the rising sophomore class. On March 20, Associate Director of Student Housing Angie Rooney sent an email with room draw tips to those drawing into Yeh College the following day, warning of the lack of singles.
“There may not be very many singles for sophomores at all,” Rooney wrote. “If you are in a draw group alone, your first best option is to find someone on the draw list that you could live with in a suite (double, triple or quad). You can use the drop down option to select to drop down into a group and then draw into a larger room with that group.”
After Yeh draw was completed, only six quads remained, all in the two furthest south buildings. After the Butler draw, which ended on March 20, only four quads remained.
“Initially I was thinking about either getting a single/quingle (four singles within a quad) in Bloomberg, but then I settled on trying to get a single in any Butler building,” Aidan Wang ‘27 wrote in an email to the ‘Prince.’ “It was a bit stressful due to the uncertainty of being put on a waitlist as there were no singles left long before my draw time.”
Wang‘s draw time was at the end of page eight of ten for the Butler draw.
Students can search for buildings to draw into and compare options on the Housing and Real Estate Services website. The TigerApps website TigerDraw contains data on many dorm rooms, including occupancy, square footage, and room reviews for some rooms — though the website notes that the data comes from the 2017 and 2019 draws and may be out of date.
The room draw process this year began on Monday, March 18, and will conclude on Wednesday, April 10. Students who were unsuccessful in selecting a room during the draw process and wish to receive University housing next year must apply for the wait list by April 29. Housing is guaranteed for students all four years.
Alexa Wingate is an assistant Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Kate Alvarez is a contributing Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any corrections requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.All 11 of Princeton’s eating clubs have elected new officer boards, with Tower Club’s president leading the Interclub Council (ICC) for a second year. The ICC, composed of all eating club presidents, coordinates club policies, student life initiatives, and best practices, according to the Interclub Council homepage. This transition comes amid rising Street Week participation and discussions about a proposed policy that would require all on-campus students to purchase a University meal plan, including juniors and seniors currently on an eating club contract.
Cannon Dial Elm Club elected Scott Becker ’26 president, Nick Crowley ’26 vice president, Taylor Hyland ’26 treasurer, Julia Dumais ’26 house manager, Connor McKenna ’26 bicker chair, Caroline Kane ’26 activities chair, Alex Ryan ’26 intramurals chair, and Jane Kuehl ’26, Abby Hornberger ’26, and Jackson Kane ’26 social chairs.
In an interview with the ‘Prince,’ Becker described Cannon as a place that has served as his “home away from home” and is distinct from the other clubs as it offers a “highly personalized experience in nutrition, social life, and culture.”
In his time as president, Becker aims to challenge the conception that Cannon is only for varsity athletes.
“The biggest misconception is that Cannon is only for varsity athletes. That is not true. Non-athletes are not only welcome and fit in well, but we also have non-athlete officers. I encourage all people to explore Cannon as an option,” Becker added.
Ryan is currently the only non-Varsity athlete serving on Cannon’s executive board.
Ezekiel Akinsanya ’26 was elected Tiger Inn (TI) president, Monica Jun ’26 vice president, Regina Roberts ’26 treasurer, Ines Robertson-Lavalle ’26 safety chair, Kargil Behl ’26 house manager, and Shravan Suriyanarayanan ’26 social chair.
Roberts is a former associate editor for The Prospect.
Addressing TI’s reputation, Akinsanya hopes to challenge misconceptions about exclusivity and safety.
“Many students feel we are highly exclusive, which is far from the case. We actively invite all students interested in bickering to visit the Club during our affinity group open houses for the opportunity to experience what it would be like as a member of the Club,” he said.
At Cap and Gown Club, Isabella Briones ’26 was elected as the new President. Aunyae Romeo ’26, Rutva Shah ‘26, Jack Ganley ’26, Kamden Hill ’26, Amy Tao ’26, and Simar Parmar ’26 were elected Vice President, Treasurer, Social Chair, Membership Chair, House Manager, and Athletics Chair, respectively.
The Cap and Gown Club overtook TI as the most bickered club during Street Week 2025 with 397 bickerees.
The club accepted an equal number of male and female bickerees, welcoming 100 new members total. The 25 percent acceptance rate is a 2.6 point decrease from last year’s acceptance rate.
Head Audience Editor and Senior News Writer Justus Wilhoit ’26 is a member of the Cap and Gown Club.
At Ivy Club, Stefan Gjaja ’26 was elected president, Zehma Herring ’26 vice president, Bhavan Aulakh ‘26 treasurer, Sofia Michaelides ’26 social chair, and Yumi Park-Davis ’26 bicker chair.
Lilli Duberstein ’26 was elected president of Tower Club and ICC president. Itoro Ekpenyong ’26 was elected vice president, Vasumathi Venkat ’26 treasurer, Bryan Zhang ’26 secretary, and Wyatt Rogers ’26 house manager, among other officers elected.
Zhang is a Managing Editor for the ‘Prince.’ Justin Tam ’27 is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ and is a member of Tower Club.
Tower let in the most members among the Bicker clubs during Street Week 2025, accepting 143 of the 302 bickerees. This year, Tower saw an increase in bickerees, compared with 278 last year. Tower had an acceptance rate of 42.4 percent, a decrease of 17 percentage points from last year.
At Cottage Club, Hailey Hubbard ’26 was elected president, Eva Elbaz ’26 vice president, Jack Feise ’26 social chair, Ed Rogers ’26 house manager, and Emeri Tompkins ’26 bicker chair.
Rogers is a staff writer for The Prospect.
At Charter Club, Madeleine Murnick ’26 was elected president, Aaron Meng ’26 vice president, and Kevin McAllister ’26 and Aiden Kaufman ’26 social chairs. Joining them as officers are Jimmy Bement ’26 as treasurer, Jack O’Donnell ’26 as liquid assets manager, Isabella Dail ’26 as communications chair, and Tiffany Gao ’26 and Hector Cueva ’26 as kitchen managers.
Dail is a Managing Editor for the ‘Prince.’
In an email to the ‘Prince,’ Murnick said that Charter brings together a “genuine cross-section of campus,” partly due to being a selective sign-in club. This year, Charter implemented a points cap during Street Week. This gave potential members the chance to get to know the club without being required to attend every event for a likely shot at signing into the club.
“This year, the point maximum was nine points, and we were able to offer a spot in the club to every sophomore who collected nine points and also ranked Charter first,” Murnick wrote to the ‘Prince.’
Murnick also shared some of her goals as president, which include maintaining the selective sign-in system, “to continue building up Charter’s sense of community and integrate our new members, and to collect and respond to member feedback as much as possible.”
At Cloister Inn, Charlotte Cox ’26 was elected president, Anahi Marquez ’26 vice president, Sean Kerrigan ’26 treasurer, Amelia Clarke ’26 social chair, and Adem Aricanli ’26 house manager.
At Colonial Club, Evelyn Chen ’26 was elected president, Owen Yang ’26 vice president, and Emrys Lin ’26 treasurer, alongside other appointed officers.
At Quadrangle, Sofia Marina ’26 was elected president, Donaji Mendieta-Silva ’26 vice president, and Tyler Longo ’26 treasurer.
Mendieta-Silva is a former contributing writer for The Prospect.
At Terrace, Lillie Szemraj ’26 was elected president, Vitus Larrieu ’26 vice president, Cian Healy ’26 treasurer, Suthi Navaratnam-Tomayko ’26 social chair, Kyle Foster ’26 music chair, and Laurie Drayton ’26 house manager.
Larrieu is a current Senior Writer and former head Podcast editor. Navaratnam-Tomayko is the current Accessibility Director and a former head Data editor.
The change in leadership comes amidst conversations among the clubs about report from Huron Consulting Group that was quietly released by the University over the summer. The report recommended that the University require all on-campus students to purchase a University meal plan, including juniors and seniors currently on an eating club contract.
Members of eating clubs have opposed this recommendation, including some of the newly elected officers.
Becker expressed his opposition towards the policy in an interview with the ‘Prince.’
“In its current form, the cost of a meal plan plus club fees would put membership in the clubs out of the reach of all but the wealthiest students, and also lead to a likely reduction in the number of clubs despite demand for club life being as strong as ever, and the student body continuing to grow,” Becker said.
Akinsanya also opposed the  proposal of a mandatory dining plan, labeling it a threat in an interview with the ‘Prince.’
“The University’s reported proposal requiring all on-campus students to purchase a campus dining plan poses an existential threat to all the eating clubs,” Akinsaya said. "We do not envisage a future where the University takes the course of action recommended by the external consulting firm.”
Justus Wilhoit is a head Audience editor and senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Kenosha, Wis. and typically covers Princeton’s eating clubs and co-ops, identity and student life, and the Trump administration.
Justin Tam is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: A previous version of this piece did not list the officers for Cap and Gown Club. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Thirty-one seniors are running for the 2025 Young Alumni Trustee (YAT), continuing an increasing trend over the years. Last year, 27 people ran, compared with 23 in 2023 and 21 in 2022.
The 31 candidates come from a variety of campus backgrounds and majors, but there are some commonalities. Approximately one-third were involved in the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) or Class Council in some form, and nine are residential college advisors.
Twenty-nine candidates responded to a questionnaire sent by The Daily Princetonian. Two, Alaa Omer ’25 and Mark-Anthony Prescott ’25, did not respond to multiple requests for response.
The majority of the YAT candidates are from the United States, with only three international seniors running for election. Cap and Gown is the most represented eating club of the 29 responses, with five YAT candidates affiliated with Cap and Gown. Tower is in second place with four candidates, followed by Terrace and Tiger Inn tied for third place with three candidates each.
More YAT candidates identify as male, making up 59% of the candidates who responded.
There are YAT candidates from 12 distinct A.B. majors, with Economics and Public and International Affairs being the most popular. There are four of each of these majors, around 13 percent of the total candidates. Comparatively, only two B.S.E. majors are represented among the YAT candidates: Computer Science (COS) and Operations Research and Financial Engineering (ORFE). ORFE is the most represented among the B.S.E. candidates: Around 57 percent of the B.S.E. candidates are ORFE majors.
A majority of 77% of YAT candidates are A.B., and the most popular major among all YAT candidates is COS, with two A.B. COS majors and three B.S.E. COS majors.
Primary election voting for the Class of 2025 Young Alumni Trustee will open on March 31 to all current University seniors. The elected candidate will serve on the Board of Trustees for four years, acting as a full board member.
In the Young Alumni Trustee election, a member of the senior class is first elected through a primary, in which only other seniors can vote. Following this, the top three candidates advance to the general election, with the senior class, the junior class, and the two most recent alumni classes all eligible to vote.
The 2025 Young Alumni Trustee primary election will begin on Monday, March 31, with voting open only to the members of the Class of 2025, and will end on April 8. The primary election uses ranked-choice voting, and seniors will be able to rank all 31 candidates in order of preference. The results of the primary election will be announced the day after voting closes.
Voting for the general election will open on April 30 and close May 14 for members of the Class of 2023, Class of 2024, Class of 2025, and Class of 2026. The general election also uses ranked-choice voting, so electors will be able to select a first choice and a second choice from among the candidates. The winner will be announced at an alumni council meeting on May 23.
YATs serve a total of four years on the board, meaning there will always be four board members that are recent graduates. Currently serving on the board are graduates Aisha Chebbi ’24, Mutemwa Masheke ’23, Naomi Hess ’22, and Morgan Smith ’21.
One key difference between the YAT process and most other elections is that candidates are prohibited from campaigning. Candidates do not run on a specific platform, and they are allowed only a brief statement about themselves which can be found on Princeton’s YAT website. The Young Alumni Trustee Candidate handbook explains that allowing candidates to conduct issue-based campaigning could potentially undermine the position of a trustee in the proceedings of the board, holding them to a previously expressed stance on any given issue.
The elected candidate will hold the same responsibility as other board members, according to Princeton’s YAT website. The website also states that “a trustee will spend an estimated 200 hours per year on Princeton board commitments.”
Devon Rudolph is an associate News editor and staff Sports writer for the ‘Prince.’
Sarah Mashiat is a contributing News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
I am writing in my personal capacity as the former President of the Interclub Council to give the University some feedback on an important matter they are currently reviewing. From late 2023 to early 2024, the University hired an outside consulting firm, Huron Consulting Group, to examine the housing and dining undergraduate experience. Last summer, the Huron Group quietly released a 25-page report detailing their findings. The report is as opaque with its methodology as it is sweeping in the scope of its recommendations, the most extreme of which is a proposal on the last page to require all students who reside on campus to purchase a campus dining meal plan — including juniors and seniors currently on an eating club contract.
This course of action would be harmful to the undergraduate experience and poses an existential threat to the eating clubs, potentially forcing many into financial ruin. If implemented, the report’s recommendation would sever past and present generations of Princetonians from their unique and tight-knit communities, reverse decades of progress towards diversity in the clubs, and throw the undergraduate dining system into disarray. I respectfully call on the administration to disavow this course of action, since the relationship between the University and the eating clubs is ultimately one of mutual benefit.
The eating clubs play a vital role in nurturing Princeton’s undergraduate and alumni communities. The Huron Report itself emphasized that “students who are a part of [an] eating club are more satisfied than those who identify as Independent or have selected a meal plan.” The eating clubs provide a convenient location to eat, as well as a vibrant campus social scene with robust safety measures, including hiring professional bouncers, running SHARE training for members, partnering with PSafe, and defining policies around after-dark events. The rich and longstanding history of the eating clubs also helps members feel a sense of investment in a beloved campus tradition. There’s a reason Princeton has the most loyal alumni in the Ivy League — long after graduation, students who were in eating clubs have a lifelong home on campus to come back to.
However, requiring all juniors and seniors to purchase a campus dining meal plan would threaten these benefits. Few Princetonians would be able to afford both their eating club fees and a campus meal plan, so requiring such a plan is tantamount to forcing most students to give up their eating club memberships. Notably, the Huron Report does not recommend that the University readjust their increased food budget for juniors and seniors to be higher, which could shield students on financial aid from the worst of the effects. With a decimated pool of potential members, most if not all eating clubs would simply not be able to continue operation — especially in the face of sky-high property taxes, multiple forms of insurance, and rising inflation in the food industry.
The report is, at the moment, a recommendation. But the stakes are high. Every time in the past a club has closed on the Street has been a heartbreaking experience for its undergraduate and alumni members. In particular, stripping alumni of their “home away from home” at Princeton would lessen their connection to campus and the University. According to the Huron Report itself, “Alumni eating club members expressed a high degree of affinity for their club, describing it as a defining element of the residential experience. The eating clubs were cited as motivators for alumni to return to campus.” This is due in no small part to the fiercely proud and tight-knit communities we are able to form at the eating clubs, which remain near and dear to alumni hearts even decades after they graduate.
Furthermore, following the Huron Report’s recommendation would reverse decades of painstaking and fruitful progress on eating club diversity. The eating clubs today are more diverse in terms of race, gender, and socioeconomic background than they have ever been before. But if all students were required to purchase a campus dining plan, only the most wealthy and privileged Princetonians would be able to afford an eating club membership on top of it. Instead of being able to serve large majorities of Princeton’s student population, the clubs would only be able to cater to the “one percent,” turning into regressive and anachronistic versions of themselves that nobody, especially the current and increasingly diverse membership of the clubs, wants them to be.
Lastly, requiring all juniors and seniors to purchase campus dining plans would negatively impact the general undergraduate dining experience, including first-years and sophomores, as well as the students who choose to remain on a dining hall plan in their upperclass years. The current dining hall options are already crowded, with long lines winding through the serveries and teeming with unfamiliar faces. Jamming several thousand additional juniors and seniors into an already overburdened and crowded campus dining system would exacerbate these issues, no matter how many gleaming new dining halls rise at Hobson or other farther locations.
Both of us, the University and the eating clubs, ultimately share the same goal: making the undergraduate experience as enriching and rewarding as possible and fostering an enthusiastic and involved alumni community. Adopting the Huron Report’s recommendation to force every student to purchase a campus dining meal plan, even if they have another full meal plan, would be counterproductive to that mutual goal. It would take away one of the most beloved Princeton traditions, reversing decades of progress and worsening the Princeton experience for all students, regardless of whether they participate in an eating club. I am, respectfully, offering my advice to the University to reject this ill-conceived recommendation.
Vincent Jiang ’25 is the President Emeritus of the Interclub Council, the organization composed of the eleven undergraduate eating club presidents at Princeton University. He can be reached at vincentjiang[at]princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.Princeton will freeze most faculty and staff hiring, citing uncertainty around federal funding and a potential increased endowment tax, according to a memo sent to faculty and staff Wednesday morning. The letter, from Provost Jennifer Rexford and Executive Vice President Katie Callow-Wright, follows many other universities adopting hiring freezes in response to funding uncertainty. It represents the University’s most significant response to date to recent federal actions.
Rexford and Callow-Wright’s memo begins by acknowledging federal cutting of research funding, the possible expansion of the government endowment tax, and further restrictions on higher education that have put Princeton’s “longstanding compact” with the federal government “under profound stress.”
The memo lays out four actions to respond to further budget challenges in the coming months: avoiding staff growth except in “mission-critical” circumstances and re-evaluating requests to fill vacancies, postponing faculty searches in early stages, evaluating changes to “major projects … in early planning stages,” and returning the annual employee merit increase pool to “the pre-pandemic norm.” The faculty salary increase pool refers to a percentage of the salary budget dedicated to cover “merit and inflationary increases,” as well as increases for promotions and other special adjustments.
According to an internal memo sent to academic deans, chairs, and directors, the University is postponing “most junior and senior faculty searches that have not been voted on by department faculty as of March 11, 2025,” but offers in cases where voting has concluded will be not be affected. Searches will be postponed until the 2025–6 academic school year.
“This is not a comprehensive list and more serious actions may be required as the external environment changes,” the memo continues. “However, we believe that our best defense against more serious actions in the future is campus-wide exercise of financial prudence now.”
“Our planning is driven by a core principle, which is that in times of financial uncertainty and stress, we must protect our core mission and ongoing commitments before making new commitments,” it adds, in reference to the University’s obligations to undergraduate and graduate students, early-career academics, and the “strategic initiatives necessary to maintain Princeton’s global leadership in education, science, and society.”
Like many of the University’s announcements in response to actions by the Trump administration, Wednesday’s memo indicated that guidance would continually be updated as potential political changes continue to impact higher education.
“We recognize this is an unsettling and stressful moment in our community, and that there is a hunger for detailed information and specifics,” it reads. “As external circumstances develop, you can expect to hear directly from leaders in your unit about additional information or changes that affect you.”
In the memo, Rexford and Callow-Wright also asked for departments and units to be prudent with spending.
“On that front, we need everyone’s help. Please look for ways big and small to restrain non-critical spending, which will give us flexibility down the road. Please be attentive and supportive of cost-saving measures implemented in your unit and in other areas,” they wrote. “And most importantly, please stay focused on your work, which is critical to Princeton’s mission of service to the nation and to humanity.”
Until now, Princeton’s response has centered around reassuring the community and providing pre-existing information on topics relevant to higher education. For example, in a January email, President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 assured the campus community that while “there is much that we do not know,” the University is working to “ensure continuity of operations and programs should temporary interruptions to funding occur.” Later, at the February Council of the Princeton University Community meeting, he directed the audience to “Keep Calm and Carry On” in the face of executive orders.
The University also launched a website titled “Campus Resources on Federal Actions,” which connects users to web pages that mostly reiterate Princeton’s existing policies about federal research funding, community members’ legal status, and diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) policies.
The letter also highlights that other factors are adding to the “uncertainty and disruption” related to federal research funding, citing a potential endowment tax in Congress and mass layoffs at federal agencies that could disrupt services such as financial aid and visa processing.
Princeton is the fifth of the eight Ivy League schools to institute protective financial measures in the wake of actions by the Trump administration.
Alan M. Garber, president of Harvard University, announced on March 10 that the university would be implementing a temporary hiring pause of both faculty and staff to “limit significant new long-term commitments that would increase our financial exposure and make further adjustments more disruptive.” Also on March 10, The University of Pennsylvania announced a freeze on almost all faculty hiring and all staff hiring.
Other universities have also had varied responses to possible funding cuts. Stanford, MIT, and Notre Dame announced staff hiring freezes, but did not freeze faculty hiring. Cornell froze all hiring, and Emory froze most hiring. A common thread between these statements was the preservation of university programs and people critical to their core values.
The memo ends by reiterating some of the language from Eisgruber’s January email to the community: it states that the University is monitoring federal changes, will comply with the law while advocating for the University’s rights, and directs community members to the Campus Resources webpage.
“Please be assured that we have established systems for monitoring and planning against uncertainties and are working hard to be as prepared as we can,” the memo states. “We will comply with the law, stand up for our rights under the law, and use our influence to advocate with lawmakers and policymakers for support of higher education.”
Elisabeth Stewart is a senior News writer and assistant News editor emeritus for the ‘Prince.’ She typically covers religious life, student identity and campus life, and eating clubs and co-ops.
Luke Grippo is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including Undergraduate Student Government, the CPUC, and institutional legacy.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.All eleven eating clubs on Prospect Ave. are known for their distinctive communities. As sophomores find their fit in terms of the eating and social community they choose to join for their final two years on campus, they must weigh out different aspects of each club that give them their identity. Interested in diversity? Look no further than Cap and Gown, where seniors report the most racial diversity of all the clubs. If your main concern is booze, Tiger Inn is the place.
These clubs have historically been a large part of Princeton’s social scene, with approximately three-quarters of Princeton seniors reporting they have paid dues to at least one eating club during their undergraduate career. With bicker season concluded and hundreds of sophomores settling into their new clubs, the Daily Princetonian broke down the senior respondents aggregated from the 2022, 2023, and 2024 senior surveys, looking at the most interesting trends on the Street. Every club had a sample size of at least 45 students, with five clubs having a sample size of at least 150 over the three years.
According to the past three senior surveys, 76.7 percent of seniors reported having paid dues to at least one eating club during their time at Princeton.
Across all 3 years, sixteen percent of respondents report being first-generation college students. Cloister Inn and non-club students had the highest percentage of first-generation college students, at 22.92 percent and 26.43 percent, respectively.
In contrast, Cannon Dial Elm Club and Tiger Inn had the lowest percentages, with 7.94 percent and 7.69 percent, respectively. Overall, sign-in clubs — Colonial, Cloister, Quadrangle, Terrace, and Charter — had slightly higher percentages of first-generation students compared to bicker clubs, including Cannon, Cap and Gown, Cottage, Ivy, Tiger Inn, and Tower.
Cottage and Ivy Clubs had the highest percentage of members who reported a household income above $500k, with 29.17 percent and 26.92 percent, respectively.
Overall, 18.6 percent of students who never joined an eating club reported having a household income below $40k, the highest percentage of any category analyzed. Among the eating clubs, Terrace and Quadrangle had the highest percentages of members who reported having a household income below $40K, with 16.56 percent and 16.15 percent, respectively.
71.32 percent of respondents who have been members of Colonial Club identified themselves as Asian. Cottage Club and Tiger Inn had the highest percentage of members who identified as white, with 77.36 percent and 74.44 percent, respectively.
Politically, 43.36 percent of Terrace members identified as leftists/socialists, closely followed by Quadrangle Club, with 32.43 percent of members. Cottage Club and Cloister Inn had the highest percentages of members identifying as very conservative, with 11.11 percent and 7.41 percent, respectively. Out of the respondents from Cap and Gown Club that reported leaning towards one specific side, around 96 percent leaned left.
Terrace and Quadrangle clubs had the highest percentage of LGTBQIA+ identifying members. In comparison, Cannon, Cottage, and Tiger Inn had the lowest percentages.
44.9 percent of students who never joined an eating club had not had sex. Among eating clubs, Colonial (33.8 percent) and Quadrangle (33.3 percent) had the lowest percentage of respondent members who haven’t had sex. In contrast, Cap and Gown (93.4 percent) and Ivy Club (93.5 percent) had the highest percentage of members who reported having had sex.
Students who did not join an eating club reported the lowest average drinking frequency (2.42 on a 7-point scale), with approximately 27.6 percent reporting they have never consumed alcohol in a non-religious context, significantly lower than any club-affiliated group, suggesting that club membership may correlate with higher alcohol consumption.
Terrace and Ivy Club members reported the highest levels of marijuana use, with average scores of 2.99 and 2.67 on a 7-point scale, where a score of 3 corresponds to using marijuana “once a month.” In contrast, Colonial Club members reported the lowest frequency of marijuana use.
It is commonly said that there is a club for everyone on the Street. As class sizes expand and new classes join the eating club system, will Princeton’s eating club communities continue to evolve, or will their identities remain?
Danna Duarte is a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The 2025 eating club admission process ended on February 7th. This year’s Bicker and sign-in was characterized by a record-breaking 83 percent participation rate among the Class of 2027, the second year of Princeton’s class size expansion, leading to sinking acceptance rates at many clubs. Today, we take you inside the notoriously opaque Bicker process and analyze its outcomes.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Here at Princeton, our eating clubs have big secrets. Buried deep in the records of the eating clubs are their demographics — which these clubs have avoided releasing. Other writers have argued that the eating clubs are elitist — with the most egregious example, Ivy, using socioeconomic markers such as one’s high school or parentage to make decisions, according to bicker cards leaked in 2017.
But without comprehensive data, it’s been difficult to hold these clubs accountable — it’s hard to challenge inequities without statistics. At the same time, a lack of information limits students’ freedom to make informed choices about which eating club to join. To solve these problems, eating clubs should report their demographics, alongside written descriptions about patterns in these demographics.
Not a single club reports their demographic data. However, in 2018, the University announced that eating club presidents have access to this data. I suspect that a major reason for this is the fact that, well, eating clubs are not diverse — the ‘Prince’ 2024 Senior Survey shows concerning estimates.
This is worse for some clubs than others: from crosstabs data, about 75 percent of Tiger Inn identifies as only white (compared to half of respondents in general). However, a lack of racial representation is a problem for eating clubs in general — while around 80 percent of white students are in eating clubs, a mere 57.5 percent of Black students are.
The economic data is disastrous as well, according to our numbers. Households with annual incomes over 500 thousand dollars are in the top 2 percent of the American population. For seniors who weren’t in a club, around 5 percent are from these households. For seniors in general, this number was 12 percent. For seniors in Ivy Club, this was a whopping 39 percent.
These are estimates, of course. The Senior Survey samples consist of about a third of each clubs’ graduating class. In addition, there may be some selection bias. But if an eating club disagrees with this data, it should feel free to publish its own demographic information.
Alongside statistics, clubs such as TI and Ivy should publish written statements to explain why their demographics are so different from the University average. This process of self-evaluation is essential in keeping these clubs accountable. The awkwardness of defending certain statistics could convince clubs to admit in a more equitable manner.
In selecting an eating club, students have a legitimate interest in joining a diverse group. After all, people want to work in diverse workplaces and live in a diverse nation. More information cannot hurt — it would allow people to make the most educated choices possible. Most Princetonians wish this information was available — in 2016, 69 percent of undergraduates voted in favor of a USG referendum to release demographics.
But the Interclub Council (ICC), consisting of the eating club presidents, refused, claiming at the time that demographics are private, personal information. This makes no sense. There are around 200 students in each club — it is impossible to make conclusions about individual members from demographic information.
It’s been almost a decade since then, and this referendum has died. It is time to revive this proposal — this time, from the bottom up. As students, we have much more bargaining power than we often realize.
There is an impressive record of successful, student-led movements to influence reforms on the Street. At the start of the 1900s, a substantial portion of students who sought to join an eating club were not given a spot at a single club. Due to the elitist nature of bicker, this impacted ethnic and religious minorities the most.
In response, students organized. In 1949, around 80 percent of Princeton sophomores signed a petition to not bicker unless all students got a bid — and they were successful.
In the fall of 2025, we can start a similar petition to reject clubs that are not transparent about their demographics. Of course, it would be rather difficult to gather 80% of the sophomores — but even a smaller protest could swing some clubs towards releasing their information. In particular, clubs with diverse demographics, such as Quad, could have a lot to gain from implementing such a change.
Change can happen from within, too. Members of an eating club, who feel compelled to make their clubs more diverse, should push their clubs to publish demographic information. At the least, eating clubs should hold internal referenda about whether or not to publish demographic data —  I suspect some of the more progressive clubs would support such a proposal.
When our institutions, whether the USG or the ICC, fail to look out for us, we have the chance to make changes for our own sake. That is the nature of the democratic process — empowering the people. The Street is the center of Princeton's social life, and as a result, we all have a stake in this matter. The eating clubs should say who sits at the table.Raf Basas (he/him/his) is a first-year Opinion columnist from Elk Grove, Calif. intending to major in English, Politics, or SPIA. He can be reached at rb4078[at]princeton.edu or @raf.basas on Instagram. His column, “Out of the Ivory Tower,” runs every two weeks on Tuesday. All of his columns can be read here.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.As they roll out new guidelines for the 2025–26 academic year, the Office of Disability Services (ODS) has opted to discontinue their policy of allowing students with housing accommodations to select, in advance of regular room draw, another student as a pre-drawmate: a student they want to live near and with whom they are particularly comfortable. For the 2025–26 academic year, such students are on their own. Instead of a pre-draw system that pairs particular students together, ODS will now require students interested in living near those with housing accommodations to simply “prioritize selecting a room near [them]” during the regular room draw process.
Of course, the University should strive to improve accessibility across the campus community. As suggested by August Roberts in their recent guest contribution, the University should continue to build accessible buildings, including buildings with accessible bathrooms, more rooms with private bathroom access, and more gender-neutral single-stall bathrooms.
But changing housing guidelines reflects a systemic disregard for student well-being and community care. Identifying and living alongside pre-drawmates allows students with housing accommodations to engage in community care: finding safety, healing, and support in a circle of close and connected individuals. The University’s failure to model these expectations reflects an inability to prioritize student safety and happiness. This is symptomatic of a deeper need to prioritize community care, especially for already-vulnerable students.
When asked by Roberts why they’ve removed drawmates from the pre-draw process, ODS cited “procedural reasons” and “safety concerns” — but for whom? It’s clear that the students most at risk from an inability to choose a drawmate are those students seeking housing accommodations. This move is arguably towards convenience for the University administration, who have to balance both a student’s necessary accommodations and keeping enough rooms available to the wider student body when assigning rooms during pre-draw. Without a drawmate for those seeking housing accommodations, there are fewer students to manually assign to rooms.
The lack of care shown for students with housing accommodations in this instance resembles the accidental leak of students’ information in an email during the pre-draw process for the 2023–24 academic year. Students’ specific needs and housing assignments were shared with many other students; although this was accidental, it was nevertheless non-consensual.
As a senior graduating in May, I’m not participating in the 2025 room draw process. However, were I to live on campus next year, I would be applying through the pre-draw process. The prospect of a pre-draw process without a drawmate would scare me. As Roberts reflects, without my support system, I would not have gotten through Princeton, especially considering the added stress of independent work during junior and senior year. I would likely have opted for a single with no private bathroom access, as opposed to a Jack-and-Jill.
The inability to elect a drawmate will likely force students to prioritize certain needs, instead of allowing the pre-draw process to address all needs holistically. As students, we are continuously supporting each other and filling in the gaps caused by the University’s demonstrated lack of care. In fact, in the absence of action from the University, students have always picked up the pieces. Students are also modeling community care practices, including organizing intentional community healing spaces after the election, but most notably through service in the community beyond the campus: historically helping Black communities maintain homeownership, collaborating with local activist groups, and volunteering off-campus, to name a few. If students can clearly live by the commitments of community care, why can’t the University? Their superficial attempt at a Community Care Day failed to live up to students’ standards — many of us didn’t engage in programming because it felt shallow.
In light of the overturning of executive orders that enforced DEI expectations and the decentering of the safety and well-being of marginalized and underrepresented communities on college campuses, the University must model real care for their students in light of the current political climate, especially those students whose identities, disabilities, and health conditions place their futures and wellbeing in increasing uncertainty. It should be a right, not a matter of chance, to feel connected, valued, and secure on campus.
The decision to remove drawmates presents an opportunity for us to engage in a long-overdue conversation about community care standards on campus. This is a conversation that has already been happening among students, which has led to our community care efforts. But it’s more necessary now than ever for the University to support its students.
Asa Santos is a senior majoring in Anthropology from London and São Paulo, and minoring in Gender & Sexuality Studies and Global Health & Health Policy. Santos’ column, “Opening the Gates,” runs every two weeks on Tuesdays. All of their columns can be read here.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.The closest grocery stores in Princeton, such as Costco and Target, are a fair distance from campus. This might encourage students to spend on nearby restaurants. However, as of late, Maruichi Japanese Food & Deli has presented students who are sick of Frist sushi with a slice of authentic Japanese cuisine.
Located on Nassau Street, Maruichi is a market that offers various Japanese foods, ingredients, snacks, and more. I found the addition of Maruichi to Nassau Street’s array of restaurants to be absolutely life-changing. Whenever I engage in food-securing expeditions with my friends, we often find ourselves in situations where we can only purchase food from restaurants. As a result, during my time at Princeton, I have formulated some short-hand rules: the food on Nassau Street must cost at least $8 but is often between $10 and $20. At times, it feels like I am paying my life savings for a loaf of sliced bread. At Maruichi, you can find onigiri for $3, pastries for $3.75, and more. Near closing time, the onigiri and some meals, such as gyudon, are half-priced.
Given this and the fact that there are not many markets on Nassau Street, others at Princeton seem to have found Maruichi’s debut to be sensational. On the day of Maruichi’s grand opening on March 25, there was a line of excited customers at the front doors, who stood in the rain to experience Princeton’s latest attraction. I learned that many stayed on the line in hopes of obtaining free products from Maruichi. I made it my mission to learn more about the new Japanese market.
Walking into Maruichi, I could not help but notice how much I’ve missed the distinct supermarket aesthetic and experience, which is rare at Princeton. I felt like I was back home at my local Japanese market. When you enter through the doors and look to the right, you’ll find an impressive and diverse set of bread and pastries. Most of the pastries are baked at Maruichi itself, and they offer a selection of Tokyo Bread pastries in their aisles. Some of the types of bread they offer include maple bread, chocolate bread, coffee cornets, and buns with red bean paste inside. Nearby, there are a set of refrigerators containing matcha ice cream, Ramune, matcha lattes, and much more. To the left of the entrance, you can find delectable snacks such as daifuku and Pocky, which are sold at competitive prices ($2.00–$2.50) when compared to Princeton’s U-Store ($5).
I continued the exploration through the aisles of Maruichi with a comrade. We found stacks and stacks of dangerously good gummies, chocolate snacks, sweet bread, mochi, and ramen. Some of my personal favorites at the market include maple bread, Alfort chocolates, and rice crackers; my eyes also could not help but fall victim to the allure of matcha-flavored Kit Kats. To my initial surprise, Maruichi went beyond the realm of snacks: at the back of the market, there are aisles dedicated to various home products such as shampoo, plushies, bags of rice, and skincare products. There are even sections of the market devoted to raw seafood, sushi, and prepared meals such as beef with udon noodles.
Initially, the plan with my friend was to simply explore Maruichi. However, I fell victim to my materialistic desires and told my friend to fetch me a basket, so I easily spent about $50 on my first trip to Maruichi. After many weeks since its grand opening, I have made numerous trips to Maruichi, and I expect to make many more while I spend this summer at Princeton. My roommate has spent hundreds of dollars within the first two weeks of the market’s opening. My friend and I left the establishment wailing to each other, ‘No! My money!’ Indeed, our wallets are in grave danger: suffice it to say that Maruichi certainly lives up to the hype from our fellow students.
Gregory Serrano Arevalo, a sophomore from Salinas, California, is a contributing writer for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ Greg can be reached at gregory.serrano.arevalo@princeton.edu.
With spring here, Marley Hartnett-Cody, a contributing writer for The Prospect, explores the campus’s best outdoor study spots.
Associate Editor for The Prospect Gavin McLoughlin and Staff Writer for The Prospect Annika Plunkett take us inside the hidden basement bakery fueling Princeton’s dining halls with over 6,000 desserts a day.
Staff Writer for The Prospect Amanda Hugas analyzes campus fashion through the lens of backpacks, bags, and totes.At The Prospect, writers often review one of the many restaurants in town, from those that students frequent to some of the restaurants farther out. But we've overlooked late meal on campus, which remains one of the most popular options for students.
Some pick up a quick snack, like a Tico’s smoothie, while others order a more substantial meal, such as a burger. The variety offered at late meal is reliable in availability and consistent in quality. Though I have not tried everything served throughout late lunch and late dinner, I have tasted enough of it that I can recommend my top three choices, in no particular order, for anyone who still has yet to try Frist Campus Center’s late meal. These will remain as my go-to late meal choices, despite the fact that I'll have to pay for them as an upperclass student next school year.
When I started frequenting Frist for late lunch this semester, the burrito bowl immediately became a staple in my repertoire of meal choices. My go-to order consists of a base of yellow rice and either chicken or chorizo (occasionally carne asada if available), with pico de gallo, guacamole, cilantro cream, and shredded cheese as toppings.
The first bite of the burrito bowl yields an explosion of flavors that satisfies my taste buds. The meat, whether it is the stringy chicken, spicy chorizo, or chewy carne asada, is extremely savory. The pico de gallo provides a bit of a kick and a tint of freshness. The scoop of guacamole and dash of cilantro cream sauce give the bowl enough condiments to complement the rest of the ingredients very nicely without making it soggy.
Each scoop of meat, rice, and the messy mixture of the salsa, guacamole, and cilantro cream fills me with a myriad of motley flavors and textures, ultimately comprising a well-balanced, satiating meal. The decent proportion of ingredients given in the bowl make for it to be an optimal serving for lunch that isn’t so filling so as to make you overly drowsy for your afternoon classes.
Usually, I get the signature-blend cheeseburger combo from the Grill Station, especially on days when I am craving something more greasy and sizable. However, the quesadilla is certainly a top contender for best item from the grill. It is not as oily or indulgent as some of the other items offered on the Grill Station’s menu, but its enjoyability is still comparable.
When ordering, I alternate between chicken and steak as my choice of protein for the filling. The portion, I would say, does seem a bit smaller than what I would have usually expected in such a dish. However, the taste of it more than makes up for the quesadilla’s size. The chunks of meat strung up with the melted shredded cheese pair well with the firm, warm tortilla to provide the perfect bite. The delectable conglomeration of the savoriness of the meat and sharpness of the cheese, all encased in a lightly-crisped tortilla, is satisfying during a late-night study session.
I highly suggest having the quesadilla with guacamole and/or sour cream, as they pair well with the heartiness of the compressed meat and cheese inside the tortilla and augment their combined flavors.
Many students enjoy late meal because of the grab-and-go nature of many of the items offered at the various stations in the Frist Food Gallery. Yet, I believe that the pasta, cooked on the spot at the Pizza Station, is a dish that is worth waiting for. After choosing a base sauce for the pasta to be cooked in, I usually only need to wait under five minutes before the made-to-order pasta is finished. A tray of seasonings from which students add some spices or other condiments to their pasta is also provided.
My usual order is either wide rigatoni in vodka sauce or wide fettuccine in bolognese sauce, topped off with a generous amount of olive oil, pepper, parmesan cheese, and pepper flakes. All pasta orders come with a slice of garlic bread. Whether the pasta is cooked in vodka or bolognese sauce, the pasta is consistently al dente. Each individual pasta is lathered in the chosen sauce, helping balance each bite between the chewy grain of the pasta and the mildly-flavorful sauce. The seasonings enhance the savoriness of the sauce-covered pasta by contributing notes of spice and richness. The warm garlic bread goes nicely with the dish and is perfect for dipping into the leftover sauce at the bottom of the bowl.
This is certainly a comforting, hearty meal that warrants a nap right afterwards.
Russell Fan is an assistant editor for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached at rf4125@princeton.edu, or on Instagram @russell__fan.
With spring here, Marley Hartnett-Cody, a contributing writer for The Prospect, explores the campus’s best outdoor study spots.
Associate Editor for The Prospect Gavin McLoughlin and Staff Writer for The Prospect Annika Plunkett take us inside the hidden basement bakery fueling Princeton’s dining halls with over 6,000 desserts a day.
Staff Writer for The Prospect Amanda Hugas analyzes campus fashion through the lens of backpacks, bags, and totes.On any given morning, Witherspoon Street’s Small World Coffee is packed with students studying between classes, professionals grabbing a quick cup to go, and old friends chatting over a warm beverage. The line almost always stretches out the door.
The shop’s air is thick with the scent of coffee beans and morning blends. Bags line the shelves across the aisle from the register, each small parcel bearing unique titles, like “Crispy Hippie,” “Morning Glory,” and “Love Blend.”
The baristas, or “Worldlings,” working behind the bar, click portafilters into espresso machines, occasionally yelling out the names of drinks (“Joe to go! Mocha with whipped cream! Iced Americano?”). A witty sign that reads “How have you bean?” hangs over the tip jar.
Small World celebrated its 30th anniversary in December 2023. Before owners and creators Jessica Durrie, also known as JD, and Brant Cosaboom brought their business idea to town, Princeton was lacking in coffee shops. Today, Small World operates two locations: one on Witherspoon St. and second on Nassau St., which opened in 2006.
The Daily Princetonian spoke with Durrie and employees at Small World Coffee to look at the origins and significance behind this community establishment, 30 years in the making.
Spending her childhood as an expat overseas, Durrie felt like a “fish out of water” as a student at the University of Michigan. After a year and a half, she dropped out and began “soul searching,” moving out to California.
Although she began working in restaurants to “pay the bills,” she soon “fell in love with the industry, and with hospitality and food and wine.”
She later got her undergraduate degree from Cornell Nolan School of Hotel Administration, after two and a half years of work experience. But, on a trip to Vienna to visit her brother, Durrie found her attention drawn to the coffee shops.
“I started visiting all the old world cafes there,” Durrie said. “And that's when I decided I wasn't going to open a restaurant, I wanted to open a coffee shop.”
After college, Durrie went straight to Michigan, rejecting other job offers to instead work at a coffee shop in Ann Arbor. “I wanted to learn the business from the bottom up,” she said. “And that's where I met Brant, at the coffee shop that we both worked at.”
The coffee shop was initially Durrie’s idea, and after some work in California, Cosaboom and Durrie both decided to pursue opening their own coffee shop.
“It was very strategic,” Durrie emphasized. “It wasn't this pie-in-the-sky idea, it was strategy and research…coupled with our practical experience and my degree from Cornell.”
After nine months “off and on” the road looking for the perfect location for their coffee shop, Durrie and Cosaboom landed in Princeton in 1993. They had originally “written [it] off,” because they thought the town was too small.
However, their minds were quickly changed.
“When we drove into the downtown, it was immediate,” Durrie said. “We saw the foot traffic, we saw the walkability, the retail mix, it was all there. It felt obvious to me that this was the town."
Durrie and Cosaboom immediately moved to town and started “pounding the pavement trying to get a landlord to rent to a 25-year-old and a 27-year-old.”
The name “Small World Coffee” was conceptualized during one of their 1993 road trips, and immediately resonated with both of them due to their shared experience as expats.
“When you grow up that way,” Durrie explained, “you start to see the commonality of all people, despite their cultural differences.”
For Durrie, her experience consistently having to find a sense of belonging has informed the ethos of Small World Coffee. Now, she reflects, “creating a sense of belonging [has] been sort of the backbone of the work that I've always done.”
Durrie believes that this belonging and community is created “from the inside out,” and noted that creating a sense of belonging for employees is integral for creating the same feeling for customers.
She added, “I think that we get the most out of people, the most out of humanity, when we all feel a sense of belonging, and then from there, we can do all sorts of amazing things.”
Durrie also noted the relationships Small World Coffee has cultivated within the community.
“The depth of relationships that have occurred behind that counter is insane,” Durrie said. “That web of relationships is a beautiful thing.”
Vincent Jule, the General Manager of Small World Coffee, oversees both the Nassau and Witherspoon locations. Jule, who has been with Small World for 23 years, described his experience working with the other Small World employees.
“One of the things that keeps [the Worldlings] around are the people that they work with, and the people that they meet,” Jule said. He added that Durrie and Cosaboom help to instill a “solid work ethic and sense of pride [and] integrity in what we do.”
When he was a new employee, Jule was impressed by the availability and involvement of Small World’s ownership, even seeing the owners washing dishes every now and then. “It always feels like a very collective experience.”
In 1997, Small World Roasters was created. “It's an integral part of the brand…having control over the quality of our coffee beans,” Durrie said. The roastery provides the blends offered for purchase in the shop, from “Colombian” to “Grumpy Monkey.”
The roastery has also allowed Small World to broaden their customer base to spaces like Witherspoon’s Café in Frist Campus Center, as well as farther away through mail orders. The roastery has over 60 wholesale customers, including The Bent Spoon, several eating clubs, many Whole Foods stores, and the Institute for Advanced Study.
Small World is also home to local artistry, displaying new art exhibits every month on the walls of the shop. The Witherspoon location hosts free public concerts on Saturday nights, featuring local bands who play their original songs. Jule said he tries to shed light on local musicians who don’t usually have the same amount of opportunities as cover bands.
Grace Phillips has been a Worldling at Small World Coffee for two years. Phillips grew up in West Windsor, and visited Small World and Princeton when she was younger.
After working in advertising copywriting for a decade, Phillips quit her job during the pandemic and applied to work at Small World Coffee. She wanted to do something that made her “feel like [she] accomplished something very specific at the end of the day.” Small World gave her that opportunity.
A typical day as a Worldling starts half an hour before opening. Rush times include the morning before people go to work, in between classes, or during coffee breaks. Worldlings spend an hour at each station during their shifts: the register, the espresso machine, bus station, and cleaning. Because the job can be very fast-paced, the rotation system prevents the Worldlings from burning out.
Jule estimates that Small World Coffee serves around 1,000 customers a day.
As a Worldling, Phillips has the opportunity to see the impact Small World has on its customers, residents, tourists, and students alike. She remarked on the interactions she has with tourists visiting the coffee shop, and she often directs them to fellow Princeton establishments in the area.
Phillips reflects on the “camaraderie” between Princeton shops, noting that employees from these establishments come to Small World as well.
“Princeton’s very busy. It’s small, but heavily trafficked,” Phillips said. “Even if we don’t know each other by name, necessarily, we all have each other's back[s].”
Phillips also reflected on how common the Pay with Points program has become since it was launched. She noted that there are some days and hours in which almost “every other transaction is a [Pay with Points] one.”
Phillips noted that the Worldlings at Small World aren’t unionized. “We are treated very well,” she explained. “There are very few service jobs that pay as well as this one, there are very few service jobs that have benefits, retirement, vacation, anything like that.”
Phillips also noted the ease with which she feels she can interact with the owners of Small World and raise complaints if necessary.
Durrie also commented on the treatment of Small World employees, citing fair compensation as the reason for the coffee shop’s “excellent employee retention.”
Small World Coffee is familiar to many Princeton students and residents. Siyeon Lee ‘27 studies at Small World almost every day, taking advantage of the Pay with Points partnership between the coffee shop and the University. Her go-to drink? “A light iced matcha to-go,” she said, without hesitation.
Lee is an assistant Opinion editor for the ‘Prince.’
For Lee, Small World is “really Princeton.” The coffee shop is a place where she sees “familiar faces,” and finds a unique community space for students off-campus. She visited Small World for the first time on move-in day.
“It felt like a movie when I walked in,” Lee said. “Kind of ‘Gilmore Girls’ vibes.”
She also notes that the continuous crowd and smaller space at Small World “fosters a communal vibe.”
To Jule, this sense of community is Small World’s mission, with coffee being a “vehicle for bringing people together.”
Mira Eashwaran is a staff Features writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any corrections requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The cost of coffee at Small World Coffee, a Princeton staple, has risen in response to supply shortages in the coffee market, an Instagram post on Feb. 23 said.
“Coffee prices have soared over the last year and are not slated to come down anytime soon,” the post read.
Some items, like drip coffee, single-shot espressos, and single-shot americanos, have risen by $0.25, while others, like the single cappuccino, the single latte, and flat white have risen by $0.50. The forte cappuccino has risen by $0.70, and mocha prices have risen by $1.00.
“I used to come a lot. I would be here every morning,” Megan Santamore ’25 told The Daily Princetonian in an interview. “But now a little less so because I have an espresso machine, and prices have gone up, so I can’t do that.”
Mariana Altomare ’25 told the ‘Prince’ that she views Small World Coffee as “definitely more of a treat.”
Small World allows students to buy coffee with their Paw Points, provided to each undergraduate student on the unlimited meal plan by the University.
Lucy McWeeny ’28 said, “I am consistently aware of how expensive the coffee is. When I go and get these cold foam cold brews, it’s like $7.50, which is a lot of money, so I use Paw Points, which is fantastic. But once I’m out of those, it’s gonna be devastating. And they’re going quite quickly because the coffee is just quite expensive.”
Cate Barry ’27, a frequent Small World consumer, shared, “I just use my points. I don’t care.”
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ Jessica Durrie, co-founder and owner of Small World, shared how the shop will be adapting. She explained that the price changes stemmed from a mismatch between supply and demand on the coffee market, which she attributed to reduced production of coffee beans in Vietnam and Brazil as a result of a significant drought and frost.
“In addition to supply being low, demand has also risen internationally with countries that are traditionally tea drinkers consuming more coffee,” Durrie wrote. “The other significant factor at play here is market speculation with traders driving prices up for financial gain.”
According to the Data Blog of the World Bank Group, the prices of Arabica and Robusta, the two primary coffee beans in the C-Market, rose by 69 and 60 percentage points, respectively, from Jan. 1 to Dec. 1 of 2024. Additionally, in February of this year, prices per pound of coffee beans reached daily highs of $4.24 per day, reaching $4.40 in one day, the highest they have been in 48 years.
“Whether this was an isolated incident or the canary in the coal mine for the effects climate change is having on the global coffee supply is yet to be seen,” Durrie wrote.
McWeeny, also a barista for Princeton Coffee Club, shared that the campus Coffee Clubs haven’t been affected.
“Small World seems to be having some issues with coffee sourcing, which is why they’ve had to raise the prices,” McWeeny said. At Coffee Club, she added, “But that doesn’t seem to be affecting Coffee Clubs, so we’ve been able to keep the prices pretty stable.”
In attempts to restrict the increases in price, Small World will be relying more on local partners and minimizing waste in their coffee-making process.
“This is a time to expand connections and build friendships in the industry. It is also a time to connect with other coffee roasters and share resources,” Durrie wrote. “One of our first employees started a very successful coffeehouse and roasting company in Oakland, CA, and he and I have been in constant contact.”
Additionally, the company will be launching an internal initiative, the Full Cup Project, which will analyze ways to maximize the use of the coffee. The shop will also be looking into purchasing new coffee grinders to help reduce the amount of waste.
Durrie shared that part of the struggle also comes from being a small coffee shop.
“We are … trying our best to buy our lots of coffee at times when the market is not crazy high,” Durrie stated. “We are too small of a company to use financial mechanisms to hedge against the market.”
Small World’s concerns accompany global worries over the state of the international coffee market. Durrie specifically cited how the end of USAID is putting the $5 million Coffee Improvement Plan, intended to address problems in coffee production and farming, in jeopardy.
Ultimately, Durrie wrote, “the major effect of all of this is that prices are going up and more than they’ve ever increased before, certainly more than Small World has seen in its 31 years of business.”
Small World will continue to address these concerns as they put their measures in place to reduce price inflation and maximize their coffee sourcing.
“Coffeehouses have always been a vital part of any community, and we will continue to ensure [Small World] keeps providing just that to Princeton,” Durrie wrote.
Luke Grippo is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including USG, the CPUC, and institutional legacy.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On any given morning, Witherspoon Street’s Small World Coffee is packed with students studying between classes, professionals grabbing a quick cup to go, and old friends chatting over a warm beverage. The line almost always stretches out the door.
The shop’s air is thick with the scent of coffee beans and morning blends. Bags line the shelves across the aisle from the register, each small parcel bearing unique titles, like “Crispy Hippie,” “Morning Glory,” and “Love Blend.”
The baristas, or “Worldlings,” working behind the bar, click portafilters into espresso machines, occasionally yelling out the names of drinks (“Joe to go! Mocha with whipped cream! Iced Americano?”). A witty sign that reads “How have you bean?” hangs over the tip jar.
Small World celebrated its 30th anniversary in December 2023. Before owners and creators Jessica Durrie, also known as JD, and Brant Cosaboom brought their business idea to town, Princeton was lacking in coffee shops. Today, Small World operates two locations: one on Witherspoon St. and second on Nassau St., which opened in 2006.
The Daily Princetonian spoke with Durrie and employees at Small World Coffee to look at the origins and significance behind this community establishment, 30 years in the making.
Spending her childhood as an expat overseas, Durrie felt like a “fish out of water” as a student at the University of Michigan. After a year and a half, she dropped out and began “soul searching,” moving out to California.
Although she began working in restaurants to “pay the bills,” she soon “fell in love with the industry, and with hospitality and food and wine.”
She later got her undergraduate degree from Cornell Nolan School of Hotel Administration, after two and a half years of work experience. But, on a trip to Vienna to visit her brother, Durrie found her attention drawn to the coffee shops.
“I started visiting all the old world cafes there,” Durrie said. “And that's when I decided I wasn't going to open a restaurant, I wanted to open a coffee shop.”
After college, Durrie went straight to Michigan, rejecting other job offers to instead work at a coffee shop in Ann Arbor. “I wanted to learn the business from the bottom up,” she said. “And that's where I met Brant, at the coffee shop that we both worked at.”
The coffee shop was initially Durrie’s idea, and after some work in California, Cosaboom and Durrie both decided to pursue opening their own coffee shop.
“It was very strategic,” Durrie emphasized. “It wasn't this pie-in-the-sky idea, it was strategy and research…coupled with our practical experience and my degree from Cornell.”
After nine months “off and on” the road looking for the perfect location for their coffee shop, Durrie and Cosaboom landed in Princeton in 1993. They had originally “written [it] off,” because they thought the town was too small.
However, their minds were quickly changed.
“When we drove into the downtown, it was immediate,” Durrie said. “We saw the foot traffic, we saw the walkability, the retail mix, it was all there. It felt obvious to me that this was the town."
Durrie and Cosaboom immediately moved to town and started “pounding the pavement trying to get a landlord to rent to a 25-year-old and a 27-year-old.”
The name “Small World Coffee” was conceptualized during one of their 1993 road trips, and immediately resonated with both of them due to their shared experience as expats.
“When you grow up that way,” Durrie explained, “you start to see the commonality of all people, despite their cultural differences.”
For Durrie, her experience consistently having to find a sense of belonging has informed the ethos of Small World Coffee. Now, she reflects, “creating a sense of belonging [has] been sort of the backbone of the work that I've always done.”
Durrie believes that this belonging and community is created “from the inside out,” and noted that creating a sense of belonging for employees is integral for creating the same feeling for customers.
She added, “I think that we get the most out of people, the most out of humanity, when we all feel a sense of belonging, and then from there, we can do all sorts of amazing things.”
Durrie also noted the relationships Small World Coffee has cultivated within the community.
“The depth of relationships that have occurred behind that counter is insane,” Durrie said. “That web of relationships is a beautiful thing.”
Vincent Jule, the General Manager of Small World Coffee, oversees both the Nassau and Witherspoon locations. Jule, who has been with Small World for 23 years, described his experience working with the other Small World employees.
“One of the things that keeps [the Worldlings] around are the people that they work with, and the people that they meet,” Jule said. He added that Durrie and Cosaboom help to instill a “solid work ethic and sense of pride [and] integrity in what we do.”
When he was a new employee, Jule was impressed by the availability and involvement of Small World’s ownership, even seeing the owners washing dishes every now and then. “It always feels like a very collective experience.”
In 1997, Small World Roasters was created. “It's an integral part of the brand…having control over the quality of our coffee beans,” Durrie said. The roastery provides the blends offered for purchase in the shop, from “Colombian” to “Grumpy Monkey.”
The roastery has also allowed Small World to broaden their customer base to spaces like Witherspoon’s Café in Frist Campus Center, as well as farther away through mail orders. The roastery has over 60 wholesale customers, including The Bent Spoon, several eating clubs, many Whole Foods stores, and the Institute for Advanced Study.
Small World is also home to local artistry, displaying new art exhibits every month on the walls of the shop. The Witherspoon location hosts free public concerts on Saturday nights, featuring local bands who play their original songs. Jule said he tries to shed light on local musicians who don’t usually have the same amount of opportunities as cover bands.
Grace Phillips has been a Worldling at Small World Coffee for two years. Phillips grew up in West Windsor, and visited Small World and Princeton when she was younger.
After working in advertising copywriting for a decade, Phillips quit her job during the pandemic and applied to work at Small World Coffee. She wanted to do something that made her “feel like [she] accomplished something very specific at the end of the day.” Small World gave her that opportunity.
A typical day as a Worldling starts half an hour before opening. Rush times include the morning before people go to work, in between classes, or during coffee breaks. Worldlings spend an hour at each station during their shifts: the register, the espresso machine, bus station, and cleaning. Because the job can be very fast-paced, the rotation system prevents the Worldlings from burning out.
Jule estimates that Small World Coffee serves around 1,000 customers a day.
As a Worldling, Phillips has the opportunity to see the impact Small World has on its customers, residents, tourists, and students alike. She remarked on the interactions she has with tourists visiting the coffee shop, and she often directs them to fellow Princeton establishments in the area.
Phillips reflects on the “camaraderie” between Princeton shops, noting that employees from these establishments come to Small World as well.
“Princeton’s very busy. It’s small, but heavily trafficked,” Phillips said. “Even if we don’t know each other by name, necessarily, we all have each other's back[s].”
Phillips also reflected on how common the Pay with Points program has become since it was launched. She noted that there are some days and hours in which almost “every other transaction is a [Pay with Points] one.”
Phillips noted that the Worldlings at Small World aren’t unionized. “We are treated very well,” she explained. “There are very few service jobs that pay as well as this one, there are very few service jobs that have benefits, retirement, vacation, anything like that.”
Phillips also noted the ease with which she feels she can interact with the owners of Small World and raise complaints if necessary.
Durrie also commented on the treatment of Small World employees, citing fair compensation as the reason for the coffee shop’s “excellent employee retention.”
Small World Coffee is familiar to many Princeton students and residents. Siyeon Lee ‘27 studies at Small World almost every day, taking advantage of the Pay with Points partnership between the coffee shop and the University. Her go-to drink? “A light iced matcha to-go,” she said, without hesitation.
Lee is an assistant Opinion editor for the ‘Prince.’
For Lee, Small World is “really Princeton.” The coffee shop is a place where she sees “familiar faces,” and finds a unique community space for students off-campus. She visited Small World for the first time on move-in day.
“It felt like a movie when I walked in,” Lee said. “Kind of ‘Gilmore Girls’ vibes.”
She also notes that the continuous crowd and smaller space at Small World “fosters a communal vibe.”
To Jule, this sense of community is Small World’s mission, with coffee being a “vehicle for bringing people together.”
Mira Eashwaran is a staff Features writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any corrections requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The University is investigating the disruption of a speaker event on Monday with former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 wrote to The Daily Princetonian on Tuesday. Eisgruber also said that he had personally apologized to Bennett and said he was “appalled at reports of antisemitic language” outside the event.
Eisgruber’s statement followed a letter written by Danielle Shapiro ’25 and Maximillian Meyer ’27, the respective presidents of pro-Israel student groups B’Artzeinu Princeton and Princeton Tigers for Israel. The letter accused protesters of antisemitism, asking Eisgruber to implement a campus-wide mask ban and dissolve Princeton’s chapter of Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP). The letter also called on Eisgruber to issue a public apology to Bennett and initiate disciplinary action against the protesters.
The event with Bennett was initially disrupted by 20 demonstrators shouting “Naftali Bennett, you can’t hide, we charge you with genocide” before walking out of the lecture hall the event was being held in. Another protester disrupted the event several minutes later, yelling at Bennett and refusing to leave for several minutes before being walked out by Public Safety officers and free speech coordinators. The event was further derailed when the fire alarm went off, an action that some have attributed to protesters. Attendees then began singing, including the Israeli national anthem.
Outside, over 200 protesters chanted in McCosh courtyard throughout the duration of the event. As people from the talk spilled into the courtyard, interactions between protesters and event attendees became tense, with people on both sides of the fence shouting at each other.
Despite the presence of protesters at the event, Rabbi Gil Steinlauf ’91, the executive director of the Center for Jewish Life (CJL), highlighted the perceived success of the event in a written statement to the CJL community on Tuesday.
“Those who tried to silence us could not succeed,” he wrote. “Their efforts to disrupt the event instead brought forth something even stronger: a joyful, defiant affirmation of Jewish life and identity.”
The event was a rare example of a speaker being shouted down at Princeton. It comes a week after the Trump administration suspended several dozen grants to the University, citing a pending investigation into antisemitism on campus from last April.
The letter from Meyer and Shapiro describes a number of alleged remarks at the protests as antisemitic, including “go back to Europe,” “you’re all fucking inbred,” and “inbred swine.” The letter also claimed that a protester used an upside-down triangle symbol, which has been used by Hamas’s military wing to identify Israeli targets.
SJP did not respond to multiple requests for comment. In a statement sent to student listservs on Monday afternoon, it decried the University’s decision to host Bennett and wrote that “many were seen dancing and laughing to the protestors’ chants.”
A post on Meyer’s X account appears to show a single protester repeatedly yelling “go back to Europe” to Jewish students on the other side of the fence. Another post captured a protester making an upside-down triangle with their hands. The Daily Princetonian was unable to verify the validity of the other two claims in the letter.
Antisemitic intimidation was on full display at Princeton.Protesters flashed the Hamas triangle at Jewish students outside of Bennett’s talk — and one masked figure evaded an attempted detainment by ditching his frightening face covering.This isn’t activism. It’s hate. pic.twitter.com/xiVQC8xGCG
“Such behavior is reprehensible and intolerable. The University is investigating and will pursue disciplinary measures as appropriate, to the extent any members of the Princeton University community are implicated,” Eisgruber wrote in his statement.
He added that the University was already “taking action” against one protester who was not a University affiliate.
Eisgruber also issued an apology to Bennett.
“Prime Minister Bennett, like all speakers on our campus, had every right to be heard without disruption and to be treated with dignity. I have expressed my regrets personally to Mr. Bennett and thanked him for visiting our campus,” he wrote.
“While we appreciate President Eisgruber’s apology to PM Bennett, condemnation of antisemitism, and commitment to open an investigation, his statement is ultimately a band-aid over years of failed University policies and unwillingness to enforce existing rules. If free speech truly remains Princeton’s cornerstone, punishments for students who violated it last night must clearly reflect the gravity of that breach,” Shapiro wrote to the ‘Prince.’ Similar thoughts were shared by Shapiro in a piece published late Tuesday night in The Free Press.
Calls to ban masks, included in the letter from Meyer and Shapiro, have been a particular flash point between the Trump administration and universities. Columbia University recently banned face coverings for the purpose of obscuring identities as part of its efforts to comply with demands from the government following significant cuts to its federal funding. Additionally, the Trump administration demanded last week that Harvard also ban masks as a condition to avoid losing federal funding.
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Pensacola, Fla. and typically covers community activism, the state of higher education, and construction and architecture.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Class of 2025 Class Day chairs announced that Jay Shetty — a bestselling author, podcast host, and life coach — will be the 2025 Class Day Speaker on Tuesday. In a video message announcing their pick, the Class Day chairs highlighted Shetty’s emphasis on “community, mental health and meaningful relationships.”
Class Day takes place the day before Princeton’s Commencement and consists of student remarks, distribution of awards, and a speech by an invited guest.
Past speakers have included Anthony Fauci (2022), Trevor Noah (2021), and Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) (2018).
The Class Day Committee — Venezia Garza ’25, Gil Joseph ’25, Kelly Park ’25, Ben Wachspress ’25 —  described a careful and value-driven approach to their selection.
“From our very first meeting last April, we just brought in a list of values we wanted our speaker to embody,” Park said. “We didn’t come with the list of speakers we wanted — we came in with the values first.”
The committee aligned around Shetty’s focus on mental wellness and meaningful living, which they felt would resonate with a class graduating during a time of heightened global uncertainty.
“He was super excited about the opportunity to come and speak at Princeton,” Joseph said about Shetty. “We wanted someone who was as excited about Princeton as we were about them.”
The decision was finalized in December, and committee members said they kept the news under wraps for months.
According to the committee members, many seniors expressed excitement after the announcement. “I think a lot of our peers were really excited,” Garza noted. Similarly, Wachspress noted that he has had positive interactions with peers following the announcement.
“It was really nice to hear that people had already come across this content in one way or another,” Park added, referring to Shetty’s large following on “multiple platforms like TikTok, Instagram, YouTube, Spotify.”
However, not everyone was impressed. The Daily Princetonian spoke with multiple members of the Class of 2025, some expressing disappointment regarding the announcement.
“My initial reaction was that I had never heard of him before,” Sydney Cha ’25 said. “I was under the impression that the Class Day speaker is usually more well-known than the Baccalaureate speaker. I’m thrilled to hear from Jerome Powell, but this felt like a bit of a letdown.”
Charlie Multerer ’25 echoed similar sentiments: “Sure, Jay Shetty has some fame as a wellness influencer, but I think our class could benefit more from someone with more relatable life experiences … I also can’t ignore the allegations that he’s plagiarized or embellished parts of his life story.”
In 2019, Shetty took down more than 100 YouTube and Instagram videos after a YouTuber named Nicole Arbour located the sources of several parables that he posted without attribution. Since then, Shetty credits Instagram accounts that he pulls content from in his posts, though several creators shared with The Guardian that they did not grant Shetty permission or receive payment for his reposting of their content.
In February 2024, James McDermott wrote in The Guardian that Shetty has changed his age in different retellings of his spiritual awakening encounter with the monk, telling various news outlets it occurred at ages 18, 21, and 22. Shetty’s legal team stated that it occurred in 2007, when he was either 19 or 20. McDermott also found other inconsistencies in Shetty’s stories.
“Why did we invite a life coach who orchestrated a multi-level marketing scam against students?” Nicholas Urbati ’25 said.
According to multi-level marketing (MLM) expert William Keep, quoted in the Guardian article, while the Jay Shetty Certification School (Shetty’s life-coaching program for master’s degree students) isn’t an MLM, it shares key traits, like high fees.
Izabela Konopka ’25 also expressed disappointment with the choice, citing concerns over past controversies. “I wasn’t familiar with Jay Shetty at first, and once I looked into him, the controversy around his coaching school really soured my opinion,” she said. “I’m not sure he reflects the values I’d want represented at Class Day.”
Jenna Elliott ’25, who previously wrote to the ‘Prince’ that she hoped for a “name that we recognize” and a speaker who would share “guiding words and wisdom,” shared a more nuanced view following the announcement.
“I didn’t have any particular expectations … but given that so much of [Shetty’s] identity revolves around self-discovery and growth, he seems to fit the tone of graduation.”
Elliott is a former assistant Data editor for the ‘Prince’
Committee members said they were aware that the pick wouldn’t be someone universally known by the class. “It’s okay to have people who do not know some celebrities,” Joseph said, emphasizing that he didn’t know who Cory Booker was until last year.
“We thought that the meaning and the substance of the speech should precede celebrity status and we think that we’ve achieved that balance with Jay Shetty,” he continued. He also urged people “to come to the speech and hear Jay Shetty talk and see if they change their mind afterwards.”
Born and raised in London, Shetty grew up in an Indian household. From an early age, he developed an interest in what constitutes success and how people can aspire to lives of fulfillment, particularly influenced by a “remarkable turn” after listening to a monk speak. Inspired by the experience, he spent vacations living and learning with monks.
He launched “On Purpose” in 2019, which became an award-winning, leading podcast focused on mental health. Shetty has brought in numerous celebrities and world leaders as guests, such as Michelle Obama ’85, Oprah Winfrey, Former President Joe Biden, and Kim Kardashian.
Shetty has also published two bestselling books, including “Think Like A Monk: Train Your Mind for Peace and Purpose Everyday” in 2020 and “8 Rules of Love: How to Find It, Keep It, and Let It Go” in 2023.
Shetty will address the Class of 2025 on Cannon Green during the Class Day Ceremony on Monday, May 26.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and education director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Glendale, Calif.
Thomas Catalano is an associate News editor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Los Angeles, Calif. and typically covers University administration.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On Tuesday, the Municipality of Princeton took formal ownership of the Westminster Choir College campus, a 23-acre property about a 10-minute walk due north of the Engineering Quad.
In a press release, officials confirmed that the town had finalized its $42 million acquisition from Rider University, with the sale approved by Judge Robert Lougy of the New Jersey Superior Court on March 5 and formal recording done with the Mercer County Clerk this week.
Council President Mia Sacks said in the press release that the property would be adapted for public facility needs, which she called “urgent.”
“We look forward to engaging the community over the next 18 months in a multi-faceted planning exercise with robust public engagement and maximum stakeholder input,” she added.
In the press release, Deputy Administrator Deanna Stockton said in the latest release that the municipality has been working closely with Rider University on “a seamless transition,” covering matters such as security, IT, landscaping, and fire systems.
Princeton officials have hired Topology, a New Jersey-based planning firm, to assist with development.
The acquisition comes after more than half a decade of lawsuits, public resistance, and concern over the historic site’s future. Originally gifted to Westminster in 1935 by philanthropist Sophia Strong Taylor for the purpose of training ministers of music, the property has become the subject of legal disputes over whether its religious covenant prohibits transfer to secular entities.
Westminster remained independent until 1991, when severe financial difficulties led to a merger with Rider University. According to court records, the Princeton Theological Seminary declined to assume administrative control, prompting the merger, despite conflicting with Taylor’s original stipulations. As part of the agreement, Rider committed to preserving Westminster’s original programs and mission.
In 2016, facing major financial shortfalls, Rider University announced plans to sell, relocate, or shut down Westminster Choir College. The decision triggered backlash from students, faculty, and alumni, who formed the Westminster Foundation to preserve the college in Princeton.
A 2018 lawsuit filed by the Foundation and faculty members successfully blocked Rider’s attempted sale of the campus to Beijing Kaiwen Education Technology Company. That same year, Princeton Theological Seminary also sued Rider, arguing the 1991 merger agreement required Westminster to remain on its original campus. That case remains unresolved.
The property has remained vacant since 2020, after Rider University’s decision to move the Choir College programs to Rider’s Lawrenceville campus.
Despite the legal resolutions this week, the acquisition is unlikely to bring an end to the legal challenges.
In September, Attorney Bruce Afran, representing the Westminster Foundation and advising Princeton Theological Seminary in related lawsuits, said that “the town will not avoid heavy litigation.”
The announcement comes after public meetings that were held last fall, when town council members approved ordinances to pursue acquisition despite opposition from Westminster faculty, alumni, and preservationists. Critics expressed concern that the site’s musical legacy would be lost and questioned the town’s ability to responsibly manage the facility’s cultural infrastructure.
At the time, longtime Westminster Conservatory teacher Amy Wolf warned that the property’s musical resources should be preserved and feared it might instead be turned into “a 22-acre soccer field.” Other residents questioned the transparency of the acquisition process and called for the formation of a public task force to ensure accountability.
The three nonprofits currently operating on the site — Music Together, Princeton Pro Musica, and the Greater Princeton Youth Orchestra — have had their licenses transferred to the town. The municipality is working to allow the Westminster Conservatory to continue operations on the property.
Princeton Mayor Mark Freda echoed a sense of optimism. “We are pleased that the legal hurdles involving the acquisition of this property have finally been resolved,” he said in the press release. “We are eager to move forward together with the community to come up with the best plan for this site and our residents.”
As public planning efforts are set to begin, it remains to be seen whether the town’s vision will live up to the historic legacy of the Choir college and whether it can withstand the legal battles that ensue.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and education director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Glendale, Calif.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.University faculty members Basile Baudez, Margot Canaday, and Tamsen Wolff have been named recipients of the 2025-2028 Sophie and L. Edward Cotsen Faculty Fellowship, an honor recognizing excellence in undergraduate teaching and scholarship. The fellowship, established in 1990 through a gift from Lloyd Cotsen ’50, awards $5,000 per year to each fellow.
The recipients were nominated by the chairs of their respective departments, and recently received official notification of their selection.
Professor Basile Baudez, an associate professor in the Department of Art and Archaeology, has been working at the University for seven years. Reflecting on the fellowship, Baudez emphasized its broader significance.
“I don’t take it as a personal-only reward, but for the department,” he said.
Baudez plans to use the fellowship to develop new undergraduate offerings, including Art Visualization 101, an “intro survey class that addresses art history and the practice of art.” He also hopes to launch courses related to “animal studies and non-human animals and architecture and art.” Baudez said that the Cotsen Fellowship will assist in the department’s abilities to create new classes and assist in developing undergraduate research.
Baudez is currently researching the history of carceral architecture, with a particular focus on New Jersey prisons. Separately, he is investigating “the role of textiles in urban studies in cities through the example of Venice,” he told the ‘Prince.’
Professor Margot Canaday, the Dodge Professor of History and a faculty member since 2008, intends to use the fellowship to design three new courses rooted in her research interests. Her most recent book, “Queer Career: Sexuality and Work in Modern America,” was published in 2023.
The first course Canaday is developing is an intellectual history of feminism that examines figures ranging from Mary Wollstonecraft to contemporary theorists such as Judith Butler and Amia Srinivasan. Canaday told the ‘Prince’ that she is also working to develop a 200-level methods course on queer archives, where students will engage with the “challenges of trying to find queer history in the archives” and develop “a guide that other students could use in their independent work on that subject.” The third course she discussed was a labor history course — “a seminar history of the workplace [from the] pre-industrial era to the gig economy.”
“I’m very gratified to work for an institution that is both a major research university but also really values undergraduate teaching,” Canaday commented.
Canady has yet to finalize her next major project, but said that the fellowship offers space to think deeply about potential research projects. “I’m taking this moment … to just kind of read widely and think about what [my project] might be,” she told the ‘Prince.’
Professor Tamsen Wolff of the English Department was not available to comment by the time of publication.
Wolff has been a part of Princeton’s faculty for twenty-four years. An associate professor of English, she specializes in modern and contemporary drama and performance, gender studies, cultural studies, voice, directing, and dramaturgy.
Wolff’s debut novel, “Juno’s Swans,” was published in 2018. She has also authored “Mendel’s Theatre: Heredity, Eugenics, and Early Twentieth-Century American Drama,” a book on “the complex role of heredity and hereditary theory in the emergence of modern American drama.”
Both Baudez and Canaday stated that the University has played a significant role in their careers and supported them to travel and research their interests.
“Princeton has … [been] extremely generous in terms of both time that they allow faculty to do research and then monetary support that enables us to travel, go to archives all over the place, be in communication with other colleagues in other parts of the country,” Canady said.
Baudez said that the University has helped through providing "financial and time support."
“[That’s] the kind of intensive support that I think really makes a difference of how deeply you can delve [into research],” Canady added.
David Yun is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Honor Committee released statistics for the 2019–24 academic years at the end of March, following reporting from The Daily Princetonian on a two-year absence of the committee’s data, which are typically published annually. Data since 2022 had previously not been reported.
The statistics, released in a report aggregating data from the past five years, include violations of the Honor Code, such as collaboration with a peer, unauthorized use of outside materials, doctoring a regraded examination, writing overtime, and failing to submit an examination.
According to the Honor Committee’s constitution, the committee is composed of up to 18 members who represent the student body and address violations of the Honor Code. Article V states that “every year, the Committee will publish aggregated, anonymous statistics for the last five years.”
The chair of the Honor Committee, Nadia Makuc ’26, said that the delay in publishing the statistics was due to “clerical errors and miscommunication of responsibilities.”
Fifty-one violations of the Honor Code were reported from Fall 2019 to Spring 2024. Thirty-one of these went to hearings, or about 60 percent of all violations. Eighteen were found responsible, or 35 percent of all violations. Of the cases that went to hearings, 58 percent were found responsible.
The highest number of violations was for unauthorized use of outside material, including generative AI. These unauthorized uses of outside material made up 24 violations — or 47 percent of all violations — and 11 were found responsible.
The most commonly used kind of prohibited materials was listed as “other/not listed.” This consisted of 90 percent of all cases that were found responsible, or 10 out of 11 total. The use of generative AI falls into the “other/not listed” category.
The second highest violation was collaboration, which had 16 violations — 31 percent of all violations — of which two were found responsible.
From Fall 2017 to Spring 2022, the Honor Committee saw similar numbers. During that period, there were 76 violations, 27 of which were moved to a hearing and 14 of which were found responsible.
While the Honor Committee reviewed 51 infractions over the past five years, the Committee on Discipline had 378 violations for the 2023–24 academic year alone.
Princeton’s Committee on Discipline is responsible for all academic integrity violations, besides those that relate to in-class examinations. The committee consists of at least six members of the faculty, eight undergraduate students, and the Deputy Dean of the College. The committee also oversees behavioral violations, such as alcohol and drug use.
The possible penalties for those found responsible include a dean’s warning, a reprimand, disciplinary probation for one semester, suspension for one year, and lastly, the withholding of a degree.
Of the 378 violations, the committee reported 63 academic infractions, 42 of which were found responsible, making up 66 percent of all academic violations. These violations included plagiarism and collaboration without recognition.
In its annual statistics report, the Committee details an “increase in the use of generative AI,” such as ChatGPT, in the cases released from 2024. Ten cases involved the use of ChatGPT on take-home exams, where students copied directly from the AI chat.
The most common penalty for academic integrity violations was disciplinary probation, with 25 infractions receiving this penalty. Examples of where this penalty was used include a “very limited amount of plagiarism.”
According to the Committee on Discipline, this type of violation also includes “reflecting carelessness rather than an intent to misrepresent authorship.” This includes instances where “the assignments were worth a small portion of the course grade,” or if the student failed to fully cite passages.
Of the 378 infractions, 158 were due to the use of alcohol — 42 percent of all infractions. One hundred and twenty-one were found responsible — 76 percent. Low-risk alcohol violations included “the possession of an open container of alcohol in a common space” and having drinks with less than 30 percent alcohol content at the hosting of a gathering.
The year before, from 2022–23, the Committee on Discipline reviewed 515 infractions, 336 of which were found responsible.
One of the harshest penalties given to a student was 48 months of disciplinary probation for “submitting inaccurate information to the Financial Aid office” to obtain financial aid. Another student received 48 months for “striking a Department of Public Safety officer as they attempted to bring the student to medical care.”
Clara Docherty is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
Several academic departments have distributed emails warning community members about visits from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and information on what to do if officers come to campus.Junior star guard Xaivian Lee's agent announced via ESPN on Friday that he intends to enter the transfer portal. Lee will maintain his college eligibility and also test the National Basketball Association (NBA) draft process once more, doing so less than a year after withdrawing from the 2024 NBA Draft to return for his junior season at Princeton.
“These past three years at Princeton have been the most meaningful of my life,” Lee wrote in a statement posted to his Instagram story. “This place has shaped me as a person and challenged me. It gave me a platform to chase my dreams and now Princeton is a place I know I can always call home.”
Lee enters the portal with a “Do Not Contact” tag, a designation indicating that he is proactively managing his recruitment and does not wish to be approached by programs unless he or his agent initiates contact.
The decision comes after a season in which the Ivy League preseason favorite Tigers fell in the Ivy Madness semifinals and assistant coaches Brett MacConnell and Lawrence Rowley were not retained. MacConnell recruited Lee, who emerged as a standout following his rookie year.
"Xaivian shared his decision to enter the transfer portal," Head Coach Mitch Henderson ’98 wrote to the Daily Princetonian. "He's a tremendous member of this program and we support him in exploring what's best for him as a person, student and basketball player"
In two seasons as a starter, Lee has cemented himself as one of the best players ever to wear the Orange and Black. A two-time unanimous first team All-Ivy selection, this season Lee became the first Tiger to record a triple-double, after an 18 point, 13 rebound, and 10 assist performance against St Joe’s. Lee secured a second triple-double in the Tigers' final game of the regular season against Penn.
Across his sophomore and junior seasons, Lee consistently delivered. In the 2023–24 season, he averaged 17.1 points, 5.7 rebounds, and 3.7 assists per game, becoming one of just five underclassmen nationally to average at least 16 points, five rebounds, and three assists.
He followed that up with an even stronger junior campaign, posting 16.9 points, 6.1 rebounds, and 5.5 assists per game while leading the Ivy League in assist-to-turnover ratio. Lee notched two 30-point games in each of the past two seasons and hit game-winners against Columbia and Dartmouth.
“To my teammates — ya'll know what it is,” Lee wrote. "There's no other group I would've rather gone through the ups and downs with.”
While many expected Lee to declare for the NBA Draft after this season, transferring was thought to be less likely. The latest Bleacher Report mock draft projects him as the 52nd overall pick.
In the modern National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), the high levels of name, image, and likeness (NIL) compensation attracts successful student athletes to stay in college and forgo the pros for a year or two. Lee's decision represents this fundamental change in collegiate sports.
Lee immediately becomes one of the most sought-after players in the transfer portal and is expected to draw interest from high-major programs across the country. Given his recent success, Lee will receive significant NIL interest, with offers likely exceeding seven figures.
Without Lee, the Tigers lose their primary playmaker and leader, and the outlook for next season becomes far less clear. While players like sophomore guard Dalen Davis and junior forward Caden Pierce, a former Ivy League Player of the Year, are expected to take on larger roles, his departure could prompt others to re-evaluate their own futures with the program.
With Lee now in the portal, he is eligible to be contacted by other programs immediately. The spring transfer window closes on May 1, giving him a few weeks to weigh his options before making a decision.
Lee ended his statement by saying, “To the faculty, fans, and community — I wouldn't be much without you. Thanks for giving me the opportunity to represent you, I have nothing but love and gratitude for the school. I hope you continue to follow my story as I willl always do the same."
This story is breaking and will be updated as more details emerge.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and education director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Glendale, Calif.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.More than 350 Princeton University undergraduates, graduate students, faculty, alumni, and local community members filled McCosh 50 on Tuesday to hear renowned organizational psychologist and bestselling author Adam Grant speak.
Grant, known for his research on rethinking, generosity, and human potential, delivered a talk titled “Think Again: The Power of Knowing What You Don’t Know.” The event was hosted by the Stafford Little Lecture series and sponsored by GradLectures.
Established in 1899 through a $10,000 gift from Stafford Little, Class of 1844, the Stafford Little Lectures support public talks at Princeton University, bringing prominent intellectuals to campus.
“When [Professor of Sociology] Matthew Desmond asks, you answer,” Grant told The Daily Princetonian following the lecture.
“I thought the crowd was full of thought-provoking questions and impressive levels of engagement and curiosity. It makes me think I should spend more time at Princeton,” Grant said.
Grant is the author of six bestselling books, including “Think Again,” “Hidden Potential,” and “Originals.” Grant hosts the TED podcasts “Re:Thinking” and “WorkLife,” with over 90 million downloads and has a following of more than 10 million on social media.
Grant opened his lecture by recounting early misjudgments — including passing up an investment opportunity in Warby Parker and dismissing Facebook’s potential while an undergraduate at Harvard.
“I made a bunch of assumptions that seemed true, but they were actually false,” Grant admitted. “It was not the first time that I had struggled to rethink something that I believe deeply, and maybe some of you have these struggles.”
Grant started his talk by saying how the smartest people in the room are most at risk. Grant warned that intelligence can become a trap: “The smarter you are, the harder it is to recognize your own limitations,” he said. “The smartest people in the room are in the greatest danger of becoming dumb.”
This led to one of the lecture’s central points: rethinking is not the opposite of intelligence but a crucial part of it. Drawing on psychological research, Grant explained that intellectual humility and the willingness to revise one’s beliefs are essential traits of effective thinkers and leaders.
“Adam Grant’s TED talks and podcasts provide beneficial information on leadership, productivity, and general habits in an easy-to-digest format,” Gavin Molloy ’25 wrote to the ‘Prince’ afterwards. “Attending his presentation was a no-brainer for me.”
“While his presentation itself was great, what struck me most was his ability to answer difficult questions in a funny yet meaningful manner,” he added.
Grant went on to outline the five personas in argument and belief: the preacher (“I’m right”), the prosecutor (“You’re wrong”), the politician (“We’re right, they’re wrong”), the cult leader (“I’m always right”), and finally, the scientist (“I might be wrong”). The scientific mindset, he argued, is the one most conducive to learning, innovation, and growth.
He encouraged the audience to think like scientists — treating opinions as hypotheses, ideas as experiments, and criticism as data.
Much of the talk centered on the concept of psychological safety — a workplace or social environment where individuals can express dissent, admit mistakes, and ask questions without fear of shame or retribution.
“Criticizing yourself out loud is one of the best ways to invite honest feedback,” Grant said, sharing that he starts his own courses by reading out harsh anonymous evaluations from past students. “I take my work seriously and my growth seriously, but not my ego.”
Another key idea was the “challenge network” — a group of people who are willing to tell you uncomfortable truths. These individuals, often “disagreeable givers,” are not necessarily warm or polite, but they care enough to question your thinking.
“The people who disagree with you and still care about you are the most valuable voices to have around,” Grant said.
He offered practical tools for identifying takers—those who aim to extract value without giving in return and advised asking them to estimate how many others would act unethically in a given scenario. “People tend to project. The takers think others steal because they do,” he explained.
During the Q&A, students and community members asked about how to distinguish between rethinking and overthinking, how to influence disagreeable colleagues, and how to build resilience when morale is low.
Hiren Bhatt, a local community member, said he especially enjoyed the back-and-forth between Grant and the audience.
“Unlike many lectures, a lot of time was spent on question answers,” Bhatt said. “I think these are the typical issues that people deal with within their organization or work often. I think that was an informative and actionable session.”
“The difference between overthinking and rethinking is that overthinking doesn’t bring in new perspectives,” Grant said. “Rethinking means applying new lenses.”
Grant also challenged traditional views of leadership. “We live in a world that still values the Great Man theory,” he acknowledged, “but some of the most effective leaders are the ones who lead with vulnerability and curiosity.”
Grant closed with a story about the late Nobel laureate and Princeton professor Daniel Kahneman, who once approached him after a talk saying, “That was wonderful — I was wrong.” Grant called it a “lightbulb moment,” describing Kahneman’s joy not in being wrong, but in learning something new.
“It’s the only time you can be certain you’ve learned something,” Grant said. “Being wrong can be a source of joy.”
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and education director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Glendale, Calif.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is an open letter and reflects the authors’ views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
On Monday, the Center for Jewish Life (CJL) is hosting ex-Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett for a conversation on his political career. The event is ticketed, will be held at an off-campus location, and, to our knowledge, was only advertised to the CJL and Chabad listservs. While it is the CJL’s right to host Bennett, we, as Jewish students, disavow and spurn the rhetoric that he has spread across college campuses in the United States, and call on others to join us.
Between 2006 and 2008, Bennett served as Benjamin Netanyahu’s chief of staff, before serving as the head of the Yesha Council, the main political body representing Israeli settlers who live in occupied territory in violation of international law.
A year after becoming prime minister, Bennett dissolved parliament in a move that triggered Netanyahu’s reelection. Since then, Netanyahu has used his administration to oppose a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and –– in the aftermath of the Oct. 7 terror attacks — wage a campaign in Gaza that has killed tens of thousands of Palestinian men, women, and children. While Bennett has conveyed doubts about how the Netanyahu administration is waging that war, he still supports continued fighting above a ceasefire, only leading to more death and destruction.
In and out of office, Bennett has strongly argued against the creation of a Palestinian state, instead suggesting Israeli annexation of Area C in the West Bank — what he refers to as “Judea and Samaria,” biblical terms long associated with a strain of Israeli right-wing politics aiming to further oppress Palestinians and hinder the possibility of Palestinian statehood. He has said that “the most important thing is for Israel to build, build, build,” in reference to illegal West Bank settlements, and that he “will do everything in [his] power to oppose a Palestinian state.”
It is precisely rhetoric like Bennett’s that has increased state and settler violence against Palestinians in the West Bank.
Now, he’s saying that he will not include Arab parties in his government if his party, widely expected to be successful, wins in the October 2026 parliamentary elections. Approximately one-fifth of Israeli citizens are Arab — around two million people.
As progressive Jews, we oppose Naftali Bennett’s long encouragement of West Bank settlement and disregard of Palestinian autonomy. In the strongest possible terms, we reject encroachment on the West Bank that so often involves settler and state-backed violence toward Palestinians. We want to make it extremely clear that — even as the CJL, Chabad of Princeton, and program in Judaic studies cosponsor the upcoming event with Bennett — many Jews at Princeton strongly disagree with Bennett’s actions and statements.
The event is also remarkably closed. Again, to our knowledge, it was only disseminated to the CJL and Chabad listservs. Students must submit questions beforehand. We worry these questions may be filtered and that students may not be able to ask them themselves. Listening from outside of the event will be difficult — Bennett’s past events have been off-the-record, and we expect his Princeton appearance to be the same. Non-ticketed members of the student body will not even know where the event is being held, just that it will take place at an “off-campus location,” that ticketed members will not hear about until 24 hours before the event.
By limiting who attends these events and what topics can be discussed, Bennett avoids difficult but important conversations about his positions that could be started by Jewish and non-Jewish students alike who are not on the CJL or Chabad listserv. The framing of this event limits important discourse on a contentious issue on campus, precisely at a time where the exchange of ideas is so important.
Given the requirement for questions to be submitted beforehand, those who are attending will not be able to respond to what Bennett says over the course of the event and will have no idea of whether their submitted questions will even be asked in the first place.
We also worry that Bennett will use this event at Princeton as campaign material for his anticipated push to return to the Knesset, Israel’s parliament. The CJL’s flyer for the event acknowledges that “while Mr. Bennett has not yet announced his return to politics, he’s generally considered … the leading candidate to be the next Prime Minister of Israel.”
He has also appeared at Columbia and Yale, as well as Harvard — where he joked that if audience members were disruptive during the event, he would “just give them a pager,” referring to the September 2024 Israeli attacks in Lebanon where the Israelis detonated thousands of handheld pagers used by the militant group Hezbollah.
By using these events to talk about his life in business at Harvard or his return to politics here at Princeton, Bennett is drumming up diaspora support to advance his political aims of further subjugating Palestinians. Bennett seems to be starting his campaign trail on the campuses of U.S. colleges and universities. We refuse to be a stomping ground for his racist rhetoric and violent policies: As Jews and University affiliates, we write to say this invitation and endorsement of Bennett is not in our name.
Ultimately, it is important for us — as Jewish people — to stand against Naftali Bennett. We see the structure of this event as limiting free speech and civil discourse surrounding his presence. We don’t expect there to be space for dissent in Bennett’s talk next week, so consider this letter us making our own space: We dissent. We, the undersigned, object to Bennett’s threats of violence against students, history of actions normalizing inequality and violence toward Palestinians, and encouragement of illegal settlements in the West Bank. We urge our fellow Jewish students and other members of our campus community to join us.
Elena Eiss is a first-year from Pittsburgh, Pa., and Assistant Opinion Editor Charlie Yale is a first-year from Omaha, Neb. Both are leaders of the Alliance of Jewish Progressives.
Correction: The version of this open letter circulated for signatures said that the email promoting the lecture was only sent to the CJL listserv. In fact, it was also sent to the Chabad listserv.
Signed,
Emanuelle Sippy ’25
Martin Mastnak ’25
Ben Gelman ’23
Dylan Shapiro ’23
Hannah Gabelnick ’26
Bryce Springfield ’25
Katie Heinzer ’22
Jacob Neis GS, Classics
Mohamed El Hedi Bahri GS ’23, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Dane Lester ’28
Tom Abi Samra GS, Near Eastern Studies
Patrick Jaojoco GS, Architecture
Isaac Barsoum ’28
Aedan Fraley ’27
Max Weiss, Professor of History
Alan Plotz ’25
Jonathan Mandel GS, Art and Archaeology
Johana Lara ’25
Jo Goldman ’25
Sakura Price ’23
Annabelle Luo ’28
Curtis Deutsch, Professor of Geosciences and the High Meadows Environmental Institute
Aminah Aliu ’25
Emer Kilgallon ’25
Laurence Drayton ’26
Jeremy Zullow ’17
Jim LaRegina, Graduate/Undergraduate Administrator, Near Eastern Studies
Adam B. Sanders ’25
Josh Isaacs GS, Geosciences
Rio Baran ’25
Emmett Weisz ’27
Holly Bushman GS, Architecture
Narges Anzali ’28
Chris Stone GS ’02, Near Eastern Studies
Masha Musthafa ’25
Zahid Chaudhary, Associate Professor of English
Yahya Habib ’26
Nicholas Urbati ’25
Ariel Munczek Edelman GS, School of Public and International Affairs
Brandon Matthew Gauthier ’25
Connie Gong ’25
Katie Rohrbaugh ’24
Alliyah Gregory ’25
Gabby Styris ’28
Leila Granier ’26
Carter Lang ’27
Collin Guedel ’26
Alex Chauncey-Heine ’24
Blue Carlsson ’25
Kyrah Potter ’25
Georgia Martin ’27
Lucy Shea ’27
Rowan Johnson ’27
Jacob Jackson ’26
Lisa Clemans-Cope ’94
Christian Bischoff, GS, English
Matthew Mariman, Library Collections Specialist V, Princeton University Library
Sam Yamashita ’26
Sofia Menemenlis GS, Atmospheric and Oceanic Studies
Ana Sanchez-Martinez ’26
Pyo Tarapi ’28
Dana Benavides ’28
Yousuf Abdelfatah GS, Politics
Thomas Verrill ’25
Haley Choueiri ’25
Adham Ibrahim ’27
Salil Sharma, Postdoctoral Research Associate, Politics
Sophia Vernon ’27
Zoe Daly ’28
Callisto Lim ’28
Irene Kim ’28
Andrew Duke ’25
Angela Brown GS, Art and Archaeology
Noah Barkan ’28
Zachariah Sippy ’23
Ryan Oet GS, Computer Science
Jack Toubes ’25
Christian Salazar ’25
Salma Alhsni ’28
Yushra Guffer ’26
Valerie Neske ’25
Gyan Prakash, Dayton-Stockton Professor of History
Anha Khan ’26
Abigail Leibowitz ’26
Alex Norbrook ’26
Pria G. Jackson GS, Classics
Rachael Schnurr GS, History
Abdullah Rizvi ’27
Matt Heinle GS, Geosciences
Fatima Diallo ’25
Pedro Espino, Research Software Engineer II, Geosciences
Qiqi Yang GS, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Angie Rabih ’25
Amina Anowara ’25
Fawzia Afzal-Khan, Visiting Professor of Gender and Sexuality Studies
Tobias Rosen GS, Art and Archaeology
Fay Slakey GS, Comparative Literature
Meredith Martin, Professor of English
Hal Foster ’77, Townsend Martin, Class of 1917, Professor of Art and Archaeology
Lara Harb, Associate Professor of Near Eastern Studies
Eleanor Wright ’28
V. Mitch McEwen, Assistant Professor of Architecture
Molly Greene, Professor of History and Hellenic Studies
Quentin Colón Roosevelt ’27
Chaya Holch ’23
Nipuna Ginige ’26
Poorvi Bellur GS, History
Elena Milliken ’26
Aron Wander ’15
Tehseen Thaver, Assistant Professor of Religion
Khari Franklin ’24
Luz Victoria Simon Jasso ’24
Theodore Gross ’24
Victoria Koretsky ’26
Maya Rosen ’17
Lucy Carlin ’28
Cassie Eng ’25
Claire Nuchtern ’15
Ardon Shorr, Lecturer in the Princeton Writing Program
Kaleb Boyd ’24
Ibrahim Bata ’26
Nadine Lombardo-Han GS ’22, School of Public and International Affairs
April Alliston, Professor of Comparative Literature
Daniel Garber, A. Watson Armour III University Professor of Philosophy
Noura Shoukfeh ’25
Jabari Lawrence GS, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Wilson Conn ’25
Raghav Pradhan ’28
Nate Howard ’25
Sara Ryave ’24
Michelle Lerner ’93
Kristin Nagy ’27
Jessica Ng, Postdoctoral Research Associate, High Meadows Environmental Institute
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.A walkout, a fire alarm, and a group singing the Israeli national anthem.
A speaker event with former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett on Monday was interrupted at various points, with approximately 20 protesters walking out of the event, an extended disruption by an individual who does not appear to have an affiliation with Princeton in the middle, a subsequent fire alarm interruption, singing by the event’s attendees at the end, and yelling between protesters and event attendees in the courtyard after.
The off-the-record event, which was hosted by the Center of Jewish Life (CJL) and co-sponsored by the School of Public and International Affairs, the Program in Judaic Studies, Scharf Family Chabad House of Princeton, and the Mamdouha S. Bobst Center for Peace and Justice, was held in McCosh 10. Rabbi Gil Steinlauf ’91, the director of the CJL, moderated the discussion. Approximately 200 students, faculty, and other community members were in attendance.
Outside the building, about 200 pro-Palestine protesters chanted, screamed and banged on drums in a display of their dissatisfaction at the decision to host the former Israeli prime minister. The chants of protestors outside were audible inside the lecture hall throughout the talk, and reached as far as Firestone Library and the Architecture Building.
Steinlauf welcomed former Prime Minister of Israel Naftali Bennett to the stage shortly after 7:30 p.m. Before declaring that the event was off-the-record, Steinlauf briefly read through Princeton’s regulations on free speech and warned that disrupters would be removed from the event and may face sanctions.
After 20 minutes, about 20 demonstrators stood up and began chanting “Naftali Bennett, you can’t hide, we charge you with genocide.” They promptly walked out of the room to join the protest outside, followed out of the lecture hall by a free speech coordinator, a University staff member charged with enforcing regulations around protests. Outside, they were greeted with cheers from the demonstrators gathered in the courtyard.
A few minutes after, Sayel Kayed, a man sitting near the front, stood and began shouting at Bennett, quoting civilian death tolls in Gaza: “15,000 children killed, what do you say to that?” Kayed does not appear to have any connection to Princeton, and posted about the disruption on his Instagram.
Kayed — accompanied by a second individual videoing the disruption — continued shouting at Bennett for two minutes before he walked out, followed by Public Safety (PSafe) officers, a free speech coordinator, and Dean Jarrett Fisher, who often handles free speech-related events. Much of the audience applauded as Bennett delivered a rebuttal to Kayed.
“Instead of whining for the past 80 years and building your own future, you have focused on killing the Jews. It’s time the Palestinians stopped whining,” Bennett said, according to a video of the exchange posted on social media.
Alexandra Orbuch ’25, who was in attendance, expressed frustration that free speech facilitators had not intervened quickly enough in the incident. “They informed him that he was violating policy, but again, didn’t really lay a hand on him, didn’t do anything, and then escorted him out after he had disrupted the event for quite a while,” she told the ‘Prince.’
At 8:06 p.m., the fire alarm went off in McCosh and Dickinson Halls. Students and community members looked around in confusion before turning their attention to PSafe officers in the back of the hall for guidance. Minutes of confusion passed before it became clear that event attendees would not be evacuated from the building.
The University was unable to provide comment on the circumstances of the fire alarm before publication, although some attendees speculated it had been pulled by a protester.
Rabbi Eitan Webb then began singing “Kol Ha’olam Kulo Gesher Tzar Me’od” (The whole world is a very narrow bridge) and was joined by many of the event’s attendees, many of whom stood up from their seats and gathered around the stage. After the fire alarm was shut off at 8:17 p.m., attendees then sung Hatikvah — the national anthem of Israel — before the event concluded.
Steinlauf reacted to the disruptions that took place in a written statement to the ‘Prince,’ reiterating the Center for Jewish Life’s commitment to open dialogue and civil discourse in the face of differing viewpoints.
“The conversation with Prime Minister Bennett proceeded meaningfully, and the final disruption was met not with chaos, but with spontaneous singing, dancing, and a sense of unity in the room,” he wrote.
Also in attendance was Judah Guggenheim ’25, who led the opposition to last fall’s Undergraduate Student Government (USG) referendum calling for the University to divest from companies involved in weapons manufacturing. He provided The Daily Princetonian with a written statement of his reaction to the disruption.
“It saddens me that the disrupters showed no sense of nuance. They shouted and pulled the fire alarm rather than listening to [Bennett] be asked and respond to difficult questions,” he wrote.
Other attendees also speculated that a protester had intentionally pulled the fire alarm.
Maddy Denker ’27, a member of J Street U, expressed disappointment over what she characterized as Bennett’s misappropriation of Jewish liturgy. “The statements made by Bennett do not represent the beliefs of all Jewish students and they do not represent J Street U’s pro-peace mission,” she wrote. About five J Street U members donned anti-occupation t-shirts and brought signage to the event.
PSafe presence in the area surrounding McCosh hall was notable, with officers guarding every entrance of McCosh and Dickinson Halls and additional officers stationed throughout the area around the event. Two fences spanning the length of McCosh courtyard were set up with a few feet between then, creating a “buffer zone” between the north side of McCosh courtyard and McCosh 10.
After rallying at Nassau Hall around 7 p.m., the protesters marched across campus to the location of the event. Positioning themselves facing a large window that looks into McCosh 10, protesters chanted continuously from 7:10 through the end of the event. Among their chants were cries of “shame,” directed at event attendees. At points during the event, a protester directed a bright flashlight into the window of McCosh 10.
The protest promotion highlighted a 2013 quote from Bennett that “I already killed lots of Arabs in my life, and there is absolutely no problem with that,” a comment a Bennett spokesperson said at the time was misinterpreted. Bennett, a right-wing figure in Israel, recently announced his return to politics.
When attendees left the event, the protesters again broke out into calls of “shame.”
Around 20 people coming out of the event then gathered along the McCosh 10 side of the buffer zone fence, and some protesters and attendees got into verbal confrontations, with individuals on both sides of the fence hurling charged insults and accusations. The environment was notably more tense than previous protests, with arguments between protesters and attendees lasting for over 30 minutes following the event.
A few protesters breached the fence and entered the buffer zone, prompting security personnel and PSafe officers to instruct the protesters to back up. When protesters did not comply, one officer entered into the crowd and pushed them back. That officer was then pulled back by another after the crowd erupted in angry shouts. Protesters remained in the buffer zone for some time before moving back behind the fence.
The University was unable to provide comment on the circumstances of the PSafe incident before publication.
While many of the protesters were students and community members, some were from outside groups. Several members of Neturei Karta International, an anti-zionist Haredi Jewish organization, marched alongside protesters with signs decrying the ongoing conflict in Gaza. Rabbi Dovid Feldman, part of Neturei Karta, spoke with the ‘Prince’ to explain why they were there.
“If we truly want to see a better future, we must address the root cause. We have to address the occupation. We have to stop the occupation in its entirety, for the sake of the oppressed Palestinian people who deserve freedom, and for the sake of the Jewish people who deserve safety and security, all of us deserve a better future,” he said.
Also in attendance was Mahmoud Desouky, who spoke over the megaphone. Desouky is a graduate from Rutgers University and is running for N.J. State Assembly in the 16th District, which he discussed in his speech to the crowd.
“This is the time for change,” Desouky said.
The protest dissipated around 9 p.m., around half an hour after the event ended.
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Pensacola, Fla. and typically covers community activism, the state of higher education, and construction and architecture.
Devon Rudolph is an associate News editor and staff Sports writer for the ‘Prince.’ She is from northern Virginia and typically covers student life and USG.
Kian Petlin is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The University is investigating the disruption of a speaker event on Monday with former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 wrote to The Daily Princetonian on Tuesday. Eisgruber also said that he had personally apologized to Bennett and said he was “appalled at reports of antisemitic language” outside the event.
Eisgruber’s statement followed a letter written by Danielle Shapiro ’25 and Maximillian Meyer ’27, the respective presidents of pro-Israel student groups B’Artzeinu Princeton and Princeton Tigers for Israel. The letter accused protesters of antisemitism, asking Eisgruber to implement a campus-wide mask ban and dissolve Princeton’s chapter of Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP). The letter also called on Eisgruber to issue a public apology to Bennett and initiate disciplinary action against the protesters.
The event with Bennett was initially disrupted by 20 demonstrators shouting “Naftali Bennett, you can’t hide, we charge you with genocide” before walking out of the lecture hall the event was being held in. Another protester disrupted the event several minutes later, yelling at Bennett and refusing to leave for several minutes before being walked out by Public Safety officers and free speech coordinators. The event was further derailed when the fire alarm went off, an action that some have attributed to protesters. Attendees then began singing, including the Israeli national anthem.
Outside, over 200 protesters chanted in McCosh courtyard throughout the duration of the event. As people from the talk spilled into the courtyard, interactions between protesters and event attendees became tense, with people on both sides of the fence shouting at each other.
Despite the presence of protesters at the event, Rabbi Gil Steinlauf ’91, the executive director of the Center for Jewish Life (CJL), highlighted the perceived success of the event in a written statement to the CJL community on Tuesday.
“Those who tried to silence us could not succeed,” he wrote. “Their efforts to disrupt the event instead brought forth something even stronger: a joyful, defiant affirmation of Jewish life and identity.”
The event was a rare example of a speaker being shouted down at Princeton. It comes a week after the Trump administration suspended several dozen grants to the University, citing a pending investigation into antisemitism on campus from last April.
The letter from Meyer and Shapiro describes a number of alleged remarks at the protests as antisemitic, including “go back to Europe,” “you’re all fucking inbred,” and “inbred swine.” The letter also claimed that a protester used an upside-down triangle symbol, which has been used by Hamas’s military wing to identify Israeli targets.
SJP did not respond to multiple requests for comment. In a statement sent to student listservs on Monday afternoon, it decried the University’s decision to host Bennett and wrote that “many were seen dancing and laughing to the protestors’ chants.”
A post on Meyer’s X account appears to show a single protester repeatedly yelling “go back to Europe” to Jewish students on the other side of the fence. Another post captured a protester making an upside-down triangle with their hands. The Daily Princetonian was unable to verify the validity of the other two claims in the letter.
Antisemitic intimidation was on full display at Princeton.Protesters flashed the Hamas triangle at Jewish students outside of Bennett’s talk — and one masked figure evaded an attempted detainment by ditching his frightening face covering.This isn’t activism. It’s hate. pic.twitter.com/xiVQC8xGCG
“Such behavior is reprehensible and intolerable. The University is investigating and will pursue disciplinary measures as appropriate, to the extent any members of the Princeton University community are implicated,” Eisgruber wrote in his statement.
He added that the University was already “taking action” against one protester who was not a University affiliate.
Eisgruber also issued an apology to Bennett.
“Prime Minister Bennett, like all speakers on our campus, had every right to be heard without disruption and to be treated with dignity. I have expressed my regrets personally to Mr. Bennett and thanked him for visiting our campus,” he wrote.
“While we appreciate President Eisgruber’s apology to PM Bennett, condemnation of antisemitism, and commitment to open an investigation, his statement is ultimately a band-aid over years of failed University policies and unwillingness to enforce existing rules. If free speech truly remains Princeton’s cornerstone, punishments for students who violated it last night must clearly reflect the gravity of that breach,” Shapiro wrote to the ‘Prince.’ Similar thoughts were shared by Shapiro in a piece published late Tuesday night in The Free Press.
Calls to ban masks, included in the letter from Meyer and Shapiro, have been a particular flash point between the Trump administration and universities. Columbia University recently banned face coverings for the purpose of obscuring identities as part of its efforts to comply with demands from the government following significant cuts to its federal funding. Additionally, the Trump administration demanded last week that Harvard also ban masks as a condition to avoid losing federal funding.
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Pensacola, Fla. and typically covers community activism, the state of higher education, and construction and architecture.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
In thinking about the complex problem of academic freedom, the Princeton community must take care to avoid false dichotomies that could be harmful and restrict free speech. One such dichotomy is the idea that we can have either controversial academic inquiry or allow those impacted by that inquiry to speak up and be heard — but not both.
In a guest contribution published on Thursday in The Daily Princetonian, Joan Scott falls into this precise trap. While defending the right to host this past Friday’s conference, entitled “The Anti-Zionist Idea: History, Theory, and Politics,” she simultaneously seeks to delegitimize and silence Rabbi Gil Steinlauf ’91 for expressing concern about its framing and impact, suggesting that his advocacy on behalf of Jewish students is somehow a threat to academic freedom rather than an exercise of it.
As Chair of the Board of Directors of the Center for Jewish Life at Princeton University, I write to provide my personal response to Scott’s contribution. Rabbi Steinlauf’s response to the conference was a principled and deeply thoughtful expression of concern — not an attack on academic freedom, but a practice of free speech. His words reflect his responsibility as Executive Director of the CJL to ensure that Jewish students at Princeton feel safe, respected, and seen — especially when academic discourse intersects with Jewish identity.
It is precisely because we believe in free speech and academic freedom that Rabbi Steinlauf’s voice must be protected and heard. While Scott’s piece claims to defend free expression, it seems to wish to silence Rabbi Steinlauf for exercising it. In particular, the suggestion that Rabbi Steinlauf’s comments addressing “many alumni and others” amount to a veiled threat — based on a vague reference to donor conversations — is particularly troubling and unfounded. It is, in fact, a dangerous and historically loaded claim: the implication that Jewish leaders wield outsized or coercive financial influence to control institutional decision-making.
Rabbi Steinlauf’s letter rightly points out that for many Jews, Zionism is not a political ideology — it is a profound expression of Jewish peoplehood, self-determination, personal identity, and connection to the ancestral and religious homeland of the Jewish people. An event — such as the conference — that frames Zionism as something to be opposed, dismantled, or rejected; an event that can be perceived as calling for an end to the State of Israel rather than opposition to a particular government, is not experienced as a dispassionate academic inquiry by all. For many students and community members, it can be experienced as a repudiation of deeply held identity and belonging.
Rabbi Steinlauf’s letter, contrary to the claims of the Opinion piece, does not call for the University to cancel the conference, silence its organizers, or suppress controversial ideas. It does not question the right of departments to sponsor scholarship that challenges the CJL. Instead, it calls for accountability and awareness of the real-world impact of ideas.
This is not an abstract or theoretical issue for the CJL. It is our mission to serve the full diversity of Jewish students on campus, including many who are Israeli or have close ties to Israel. These students are not seeking to avoid difficult conversations. But they deserve to know that when their identities are implicated in campus discourse, academic departments recognize their dignity and humanity. The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity. Princeton’s own faculty regulations require a classroom environment where no student should feel “humiliated, intimidated, or excluded.” The same standards ought to apply outside of the classroom as well.
Rabbi Steinlauf has modeled precisely the kind of leadership that is needed. His public comments last week — in The New York Times, CNN, and NBC News — have consistently affirmed that Princeton remains a place where Jewish students overwhelmingly report feeling safe and supported. He has defended the University’s commitment to both academic freedom and civil discourse, even while challenging the framing of this particular conference.
It is possible — indeed, essential — both to defend the right to controversial academic inquiry and the right of those who feel harmed by its framing to speak up and be heard. This is what Rabbi Steinlauf has done. And Rabbi Steinlauf’s advocacy is in marked contrast to the unacceptable, disruptive actions by protestors at Monday evening’s conversation with former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, which unacceptably sought to shut down and silence the free exchange of ideas at that event.
Rabbi Steinlauf is not only doing his job, but he is doing it extraordinarily well. During a time that has been difficult for many Jews on many college campuses, I’ve heard from parents and students alike that under Rabbi Steinlauf’s leadership, the CJL has thrived as a vibrant, welcoming, and intellectually dynamic center of Jewish life consistent with all of the best principles of Princeton University. His unwavering commitment to pluralism, dialogue, and pastoral care has made the CJL a home for students across the religious, political, and cultural spectrum, Jews and non-Jews alike. That is no small achievement in this challenging moment for campus life — and it deserves the full recognition and support of the Princeton community.
I urge the Princeton community to listen to others on campus with whom they may disagree with curiosity rather than condemnation, and to remember that free speech must include the voices of those advocating for their communities with love, concern, and the hope of greater understanding.
Douglas F. Schleicher ’81 is the Chair of the Board of Directors of the Center for Jewish Life. He may be reached at dschleicher203[at]gmail.com.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.
I believe preservation of capital and significant liquidity should be Princeton’s guiding principle. Most importantly, there should be greater light shone on the endowment and how it is invested.The Daily Princetonian’s pages are full of talk about the existential threat that Princeton faces due to President Donald Trump. This became especially relevant last week, when several federal agencies in the Trump administration rescinded an estimated $210 million in research grants to the University. When faced with a similar situation, Columbia chose to capitulate. Princeton is making the admirable choice to stand up to Trump. I concur with the Editorial Board, of which I am a member, in commending Eisgruber’s approach.
However, in focusing on Princeton more broadly as an institution, we often overlook Princeton’s  crucial core: our community. Thus, the University must be vigorously proactive, as opposed to reactive, in defending our people, whether that be Princeton’s minorities, international students, or staff members. The University cannot just make statements — it must take tangible, material steps to empower the people in our community.
Of course, it’s important to applaud the University’s successes. It made the right move in expanding financial aid — a relatively small part of the budget that provides a massive boon to economic access. And while Columbia is instituting a special police force and banning face masks during protests, Princeton is remaining steadfast in maintaining its status quo of free speech. This is good work on Eisgruber’s part.
However, aside from our protections on aid, Eisgruber has mainly focused on academic freedom and free speech. These are admirable values, but Princeton is not just an idea-producing institution — it is a body of real, living people who together make this University great. In his Atlantic article, Eisgruber did not comment on the threats that students face — such as deportation — and did not mention protecting students or staff from the Trump administration.
This is insufficient. Princeton cannot just focus on its own existence; it must focus on its people. Because after all is done, Princeton, as an institution, will be fine.
At the end of the Trump administration, its buildings will still be standing. Perhaps its coffers will be less full, but, as my colleague Wynne Conger and Harvard’s former president have both argued, they can handle the hit, and the University has the privilege of issuing AAA-rated bonds in the meantime. Its prowess as a research institution is a legacy that will be hard to break.
But the Trump administration can inflict massive pain on Princeton’s people. And Princeton should leverage its abundance to do what it can to prevent that. Princeton needs to guarantee funding and protection for its access programs. This includes the Carl A. Fields Center, which fosters cultural understanding, and the Emma Bloomberg Center for Access & Opportunity, which supports the needs of first-generation, low-income students.
Trump is afraid of diverse communities — if we can help these communities thrive at Princeton, we succeed in fighting against Trump. Students from racial or economic minorities provide necessary perspectives. As Dean Karen Richardson has said, “when students from different backgrounds lend their voices and talents to the academic and social fabric of the campus, every member of the community benefits.”
The University must also protect the rights of undocumented and international students who may be unjustly singled out. The abduction of Mahmoud Khalil at Columbia is unjust. We cannot let the same happen at our University.
Tufts threw its support behind Rümeysa Öztürk when she was detained by ICE. Princeton should follow suit, guaranteeing legal support to its international students. The Davis International Center already provides guidance for these students, but Princeton can go further. Princeton can issue declarations in individual cases, similar to the one issued by Tufts. The Davis IC could offer direct legal assistance, through providing free, University-sponsored lawyers. Once a plan is outlined, the University should issue a statement about its steps to protect these students.
Our undocumented students, who often face a great deal of struggle because of their immigration status, deserve a place at Princeton. A brilliant, wonderful student is a brilliant, wonderful student regardless of their documents.
Barring a substantial endowment tax increase, which the University is fighting against, there is not much more that Trump can wield financially against Princeton. They have already revoked many of our federal grants, which we received comparatively less of than Ivy League peers to start with.
But there is much more that Trump can do against our people — and it is up to the University to make sure that our people are empowered. Trump is fighting a war against the nation, and the University must protect the Princeton community on every possible front.
Raf Basas (he/him/his) is a first-year opinion columnist from Elk Grove, Calif. intending to major in English, Anthro, or Politics. He can be reached at rb4078[at]princeton.edu or @raf.basas on Instagram. His column, “Out of the Ivory Tower,” runs every two weeks on Tuesday. All of his columns can be read here.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.On March 27, the majority of the Class of 2029 opened their Princeton acceptance letters. Pre-frosh are getting ready for Preview, fantasizing about and planning for their upcoming college careers, and familiarizing themselves with Princeton (and hopefully, with the ‘Prince’!).
Here, our first-year Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.
Embrace the awkward
Lily Halbert-Alexander, Assistant Opinion Editor
Freshman orientation is intense, saturated with the natural stress of immersion in an unfamiliar place. Most everyone reaches a point when recounting one’s name, hometown, and prospective major one more time feels unbearable, and hiding away in one’s room feels tempting.
It’s absolutely necessary, and healthy, to take time for yourself. At the same time, when I look back at the many times in the beginning of the school year I swore I would reach out for a meal with someone, I wish I had been more committed to following through.
Nerves were my main obstacle. I worried about running out of questions, gaping silences, and the prospect of being the first person to reach out. These matters now feel trivial; in retrospect, the glorious awkwardness seems to be the bedrock of freshman orientation. Orientation is a unique period of vulnerability, in that we are united by our collective inexperience with Princeton: the entire endeavor depends on getting up each day and figuring out how to live in a way we’ve never done before.
Moments of social uncertainty — in short, a really awkward dinner— are valuable in themselves, regardless of how they work out, because they remind us that the college experience is not about perfection. With each awkward dinner, we get one step closer to finding our people. The awkwardness was never going to be avoided, and I find myself wishing I’d spent less energy trying.
Lily Halbert-Alexander is an assistant Opinion editor and prospective English major from San Francisco. She can be reached at lh1157[at]princeton.edu
To find ‘your’ people, meet all people
By Ava Johnson, Columnist
Incoming frosh, you have likely spent your entire adolescence working super hard.
Most people I know here spent high school pushing themselves to excel academically, while stretching themselves thin across countless extracurriculars. I encourage you to check those priorities at Fitzrandolph Gate. You should try hard academically — but you should try just as hard to get to know as many people as you possibly can in your time at Princeton.
Some of the things you learn at Princeton will stick in your mind for the rest of your life, but some of the people you meet at Princeton will be in your life for the rest of your life. This place is full of incredible and interesting people. Every person I’ve encountered at Princeton has impacted my life in some way — not just my incredible friends, classmates, and peers. From the kind Facilities workers I pass on the way to the bathroom to the nationally known political commentators I’ve taken classes from, this community has meant so much to me. And I know them because I talked to them. Don’t be afraid to invite your professor to lunch, or compliment the cool shoes of the person sitting next to you in lecture. Don’t be afraid to reach out to as many people as possible and get out of your social comfort zone.
It’s still important to work hard — but don’t let that goal get in the way of meeting people. Odds are, the people around you are absolutely amazing.
Ava Johnson is a sophomore columnist and Politics major from Washington, D.C. Her column “The New Nassau” runs every three weeks on Thursdays. You can read all of her columns here. She can be reached by email at aj9432[at]princeton.edu.
Make Princeton your own
By Jorge Reyes, Columnist
After being accepted to Princeton, I used to daydream about studying in all the Gothic and picturesque buildings I had seen online, the places that made me even more excited to attend such a renowned university. I resolved to study someplace new each day in pursuit of the perfect study spot. However, after arriving on campus, I found that I had forgotten all about exploring the places I was once so excited to discover.
Over the summer, I spent much of my time near Yeh and New College West, as these residential colleges host students for the Freshman Scholars Institute — a summer program that allows FGLI students to come to campus before their first year and take classes for credit. Unfortunately, I did not do much exploring.
Once the academic year began, I studied at the same places daily. I spent countless nights studying in Frick Laboratory or Fine Hall. I did not realize that many of the beautiful buildings I pictured myself studying in would be nowhere near the classes I was taking — Firestone Library, Chancellor Green, and the study spaces in Mathey-Rockefeller are nowhere near the Frick Chemistry Laboratory.  Now, as my first year comes to an end, I am trying to revive my old mission. I’m exploring buildings and places I didn’t even know existed — it has added joy and variety to my days and reinvigorated my productivity.
Incoming freshmen, I encourage you to explore all parts of this beautiful campus, including those out of your way. Doing so will cultivate a deeper appreciation of the campus you’ll grow to love and help make the most out of your time at Princeton.
Jorge Reyes is a named opinion columnist for the ‘Prince.’ You can read his column, “No Tiger Left Behind,” every three weeks on Tuesday here. He can be reached at jr7982@princeton.edu
Try something new and regret it
By Lillian Paterson, Contributing Opinion Writer
When I came to Princeton, I had a pretty clear idea of what I wanted out of my college experience: to write about people, read about new things, and visit cool places. Because these are common experiences at Princeton, I initially felt satisfied with my classes, the extracurriculars I joined, and my new life as a Princeton undergraduate.
But after my first semester ended, I reflected on my time at Princeton so far and realized satisfaction isn’t necessarily happiness. Going to Princeton is more than feeling satisfied. It’s about joining and creating new worlds for yourself, venturing outside of your comfort zone, and remaining open to surprises. I sequestered myself into my pre-existing interests my first semester here. It was easy to limit myself to the pursuit of what I knew I was already interested in. But it’s always been hard for me to endure the anxiety that comes with unfamiliar waters.
At the beginning of my freshman year, I talked to a member of the Ultimate Frisbee Team at the club fair. It was great: I got excited about a sport I never thought I’d be interested in. I thought about joining for a couple days but never answered a text I’d received from an existing member. I regret that. Even if it didn’t stick, even if I had hated it, the experience of knowing and trying is worthwhile, it’s what Princeton’s all about.
Lillian Paterson is a first year prospective English major from Silver Spring, MD. She can be reached at lp3095@princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
I believe preservation of capital and significant liquidity should be Princeton’s guiding principle. Most importantly, there should be greater light shone on the endowment and how it is invested.On Tuesday, the Municipality of Princeton took formal ownership of the Westminster Choir College campus, a 23-acre property about a 10-minute walk due north of the Engineering Quad.
In a press release, officials confirmed that the town had finalized its $42 million acquisition from Rider University, with the sale approved by Judge Robert Lougy of the New Jersey Superior Court on March 5 and formal recording done with the Mercer County Clerk this week.
Council President Mia Sacks said in the press release that the property would be adapted for public facility needs, which she called “urgent.”
“We look forward to engaging the community over the next 18 months in a multi-faceted planning exercise with robust public engagement and maximum stakeholder input,” she added.
In the press release, Deputy Administrator Deanna Stockton said in the latest release that the municipality has been working closely with Rider University on “a seamless transition,” covering matters such as security, IT, landscaping, and fire systems.
Princeton officials have hired Topology, a New Jersey-based planning firm, to assist with development.
The acquisition comes after more than half a decade of lawsuits, public resistance, and concern over the historic site’s future. Originally gifted to Westminster in 1935 by philanthropist Sophia Strong Taylor for the purpose of training ministers of music, the property has become the subject of legal disputes over whether its religious covenant prohibits transfer to secular entities.
Westminster remained independent until 1991, when severe financial difficulties led to a merger with Rider University. According to court records, the Princeton Theological Seminary declined to assume administrative control, prompting the merger, despite conflicting with Taylor’s original stipulations. As part of the agreement, Rider committed to preserving Westminster’s original programs and mission.
In 2016, facing major financial shortfalls, Rider University announced plans to sell, relocate, or shut down Westminster Choir College. The decision triggered backlash from students, faculty, and alumni, who formed the Westminster Foundation to preserve the college in Princeton.
A 2018 lawsuit filed by the Foundation and faculty members successfully blocked Rider’s attempted sale of the campus to Beijing Kaiwen Education Technology Company. That same year, Princeton Theological Seminary also sued Rider, arguing the 1991 merger agreement required Westminster to remain on its original campus. That case remains unresolved.
The property has remained vacant since 2020, after Rider University’s decision to move the Choir College programs to Rider’s Lawrenceville campus.
Despite the legal resolutions this week, the acquisition is unlikely to bring an end to the legal challenges.
In September, Attorney Bruce Afran, representing the Westminster Foundation and advising Princeton Theological Seminary in related lawsuits, said that “the town will not avoid heavy litigation.”
The announcement comes after public meetings that were held last fall, when town council members approved ordinances to pursue acquisition despite opposition from Westminster faculty, alumni, and preservationists. Critics expressed concern that the site’s musical legacy would be lost and questioned the town’s ability to responsibly manage the facility’s cultural infrastructure.
At the time, longtime Westminster Conservatory teacher Amy Wolf warned that the property’s musical resources should be preserved and feared it might instead be turned into “a 22-acre soccer field.” Other residents questioned the transparency of the acquisition process and called for the formation of a public task force to ensure accountability.
The three nonprofits currently operating on the site — Music Together, Princeton Pro Musica, and the Greater Princeton Youth Orchestra — have had their licenses transferred to the town. The municipality is working to allow the Westminster Conservatory to continue operations on the property.
Princeton Mayor Mark Freda echoed a sense of optimism. “We are pleased that the legal hurdles involving the acquisition of this property have finally been resolved,” he said in the press release. “We are eager to move forward together with the community to come up with the best plan for this site and our residents.”
As public planning efforts are set to begin, it remains to be seen whether the town’s vision will live up to the historic legacy of the Choir college and whether it can withstand the legal battles that ensue.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and education director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Glendale, Calif.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
In response to the Trump Administration’s recent efforts to suspend $400 million in federal grants to Columbia University and $210 million to Princeton University, professors and administrators have rushed to the defense of “academic freedom.” In a recent op-ed, University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 charged President Trump with launching “the greatest threat to American universities since the Red Scare of the 1950s.” At stake, he argues, is the notion that “people and ideas [should] be judged by scholarly standards, not according to the whims or interests of powerful trustees, donors, or political officials.”
What Eisgruber doesn’t consider, however, is that the threat to academic freedom comes not from the government but from the universities themselves. Rather than focusing on external threats, Princeton should turn the microscope inward and acknowledge the recurring problem of intellectual diversity in its ranks. Allowing faculty to write and research freely, although admirable on its face, ignores a deeper problem. Faculty might indeed be unencumbered by external threats, but they will be constrained, internally, by the ideas and methods incentivized by the academic monoculture in which they work.
Consider a few statistics. First, according to a 2020 study, Democratic registration of Princeton faculty outpaced Republican registration by a staggering 40:1 ratio. Across the universities surveyed, the average was 8.4:1. When it came to donations, none of the surveyed Princeton faculty reported donating to Republicans. What’s more, a 2017 study found that between 1969 and 2014, the conservative-liberal ratio among American college and university faculty rose from just under 2:1 to just below 5:1.
Contrary to President Eisgruber’s assertions, there is little threat that future “left-leaning politicians may demand that universities do their bidding.” For all intents and purposes, the universities already do — and this is a problem that shows only signs of worsening.
A few years ago, then-professor Joshua Katz was ousted after a University investigation said he was not forthcoming about an inquiry into a consensual relationship with an undergraduate. But the circumstances under which the charges were brought — after he had made controversial comments about a student organization — raised doubts as to the University’s true motives. Moreover, Princeton violated the sacred tenet of professorial tenure in firing Katz, precisely meant to protect academic freedom. Elsewhere, Princeton departments have relentlessly pushed diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives on their own faculty, with some including anti-racism or diversity statements on their websites.
This cultural problem has spread to the University administration’s decisions around the system of no-communication orders — reserved for victims of sexual harassment and stalking — which was allowed to be weaponized against Jewish student journalists trying to cover campus protests for my student publication, The Princeton Tory.
As long as they receive federal funding, universities cannot be as independent as they claim. James Madison, a member of the Class of 1771, warned in the Federalist Papers about worthless written demarcations of authority. The ideal of “independent academic institutions” may sound great in principle, but in a monocultural academic system tied incestuously to the federal government, such a promise is nothing but a parchment barrier. Indeed, now, universities also cannot expect to shirk public accountability for their commitment to progressive ideology. Universities should not pretend to be independent when they are not.
President Eisgruber’s response thus betrays an entitlement that only decades in academia can cultivate. The American people have little patience for institutions of higher education, especially given decades of cultural and economic preferentialism given to college graduates, years of discrimination in admissions practices, and months of destructive protests. They see their hard work being exploited to pay the debts of college graduates, watering the ivy of academia with the sweat of their brow. When institutions like Princeton betray their academic mission in pursuit of ideology, they break the social contract made with the American people, adding the insult of hypocrisy to economic injury.
In his article, Eisgruber exposes his own ideological bias by asserting that research universities exist to “challenge political power” and “overcome injustices.” In his 2025 State of the University letter, he writes that “diversity and inclusivity are essential to the excellence of our campus communities and the achievement of our educational mission.” Academic freedom, which exists to protect faculty in their pursuit of truth in teaching and research, has been appropriated to catechize university communities in the credos of diversity and identitarianism. Ideology threatens academic freedom because it narrows the scope of the ideas that will be entertained, disfavoring ideas not for lack of intellectual rigor but simply for ideological non-alignment.
Such a politicized conception of a university’s mission breeds disaster, especially in the sciences. During the COVID-19 pandemic, for example, the scientific establishment squashed the opinions of thinkers whose findings went outside the academic mainstream. Stanford health economist Dr. Jay Bhattacharya was ruthlessly shamed for his independent findings on the adverse effects of lockdowns, incurring the wrath of the scientific establishment and some in the Stanford faculty. Hoover Institution fellow Scott Atlas was censured by an 85 percent vote of the Stanford Faculty Senate for the crime of “promot[ing] a view of COVID-19 that contradicts medical science.”
America’s universities have an ideological problem on their hands, but their leaders refuse to admit any wrongdoing nor propose any improvements. Rather than honestly and humbly justifying their work to the American people, administrators exploit their institutions’ successful pasts to maintain their current cultural standing. At the same time, like at Princeton, they attack the figures who contributed to the very prestige they now wield as a weapon. Until they either admit their actual intentions or reform their institutions to truly reflect the principles they claim to value, these universities should expect continued pressure from both the public and the federal government.
If President Eisgruber is right about one thing, it is that America’s universities have contributed mightily to its greatness. Many, like Princeton, were crucial to the nation’s founding, and they have proven crucial to its climb toward global leadership. But we cannot trust these institutions with prestige and public funding if they use them without regard for the people, and country, they claim to serve. If Princeton wants to regain the trust of the American people, it should start by ditching ideology and pursuing truth. Only then can true academic freedom flourish in its halls.
Zach Gardner is a junior majoring in Politics and minoring in English and History. He is the publisher of The Princeton Tory, the President of the Princeton Federalist Society, and the President of the Princeton Open Campus Coalition. He can be reached at zachgardner[at]princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.Junior star guard Xaivian Lee's agent announced via ESPN on Friday that he intends to enter the transfer portal. Lee will maintain his college eligibility and also test the National Basketball Association (NBA) draft process once more, doing so less than a year after withdrawing from the 2024 NBA Draft to return for his junior season at Princeton.
“These past three years at Princeton have been the most meaningful of my life,” Lee wrote in a statement posted to his Instagram story. “This place has shaped me as a person and challenged me. It gave me a platform to chase my dreams and now Princeton is a place I know I can always call home.”
Lee enters the portal with a “Do Not Contact” tag, a designation indicating that he is proactively managing his recruitment and does not wish to be approached by programs unless he or his agent initiates contact.
The decision comes after a season in which the Ivy League preseason favorite Tigers fell in the Ivy Madness semifinals and assistant coaches Brett MacConnell and Lawrence Rowley were not retained. MacConnell recruited Lee, who emerged as a standout following his rookie year.
"Xaivian shared his decision to enter the transfer portal," Head Coach Mitch Henderson ’98 wrote to the Daily Princetonian. "He's a tremendous member of this program and we support him in exploring what's best for him as a person, student and basketball player"
In two seasons as a starter, Lee has cemented himself as one of the best players ever to wear the Orange and Black. A two-time unanimous first team All-Ivy selection, this season Lee became the first Tiger to record a triple-double, after an 18 point, 13 rebound, and 10 assist performance against St Joe’s. Lee secured a second triple-double in the Tigers' final game of the regular season against Penn.
Across his sophomore and junior seasons, Lee consistently delivered. In the 2023–24 season, he averaged 17.1 points, 5.7 rebounds, and 3.7 assists per game, becoming one of just five underclassmen nationally to average at least 16 points, five rebounds, and three assists.
He followed that up with an even stronger junior campaign, posting 16.9 points, 6.1 rebounds, and 5.5 assists per game while leading the Ivy League in assist-to-turnover ratio. Lee notched two 30-point games in each of the past two seasons and hit game-winners against Columbia and Dartmouth.
“To my teammates — ya'll know what it is,” Lee wrote. "There's no other group I would've rather gone through the ups and downs with.”
While many expected Lee to declare for the NBA Draft after this season, transferring was thought to be less likely. The latest Bleacher Report mock draft projects him as the 52nd overall pick.
In the modern National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), the high levels of name, image, and likeness (NIL) compensation attracts successful student athletes to stay in college and forgo the pros for a year or two. Lee's decision represents this fundamental change in collegiate sports.
Lee immediately becomes one of the most sought-after players in the transfer portal and is expected to draw interest from high-major programs across the country. Given his recent success, Lee will receive significant NIL interest, with offers likely exceeding seven figures.
Without Lee, the Tigers lose their primary playmaker and leader, and the outlook for next season becomes far less clear. While players like sophomore guard Dalen Davis and junior forward Caden Pierce, a former Ivy League Player of the Year, are expected to take on larger roles, his departure could prompt others to re-evaluate their own futures with the program.
With Lee now in the portal, he is eligible to be contacted by other programs immediately. The spring transfer window closes on May 1, giving him a few weeks to weigh his options before making a decision.
Lee ended his statement by saying, “To the faculty, fans, and community — I wouldn't be much without you. Thanks for giving me the opportunity to represent you, I have nothing but love and gratitude for the school. I hope you continue to follow my story as I willl always do the same."
This story is breaking and will be updated as more details emerge.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and education director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Glendale, Calif.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is an open letter and reflects the authors’ views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
On Monday, the Center for Jewish Life (CJL) is hosting ex-Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett for a conversation on his political career. The event is ticketed, will be held at an off-campus location, and, to our knowledge, was only advertised to the CJL and Chabad listservs. While it is the CJL’s right to host Bennett, we, as Jewish students, disavow and spurn the rhetoric that he has spread across college campuses in the United States, and call on others to join us.
Between 2006 and 2008, Bennett served as Benjamin Netanyahu’s chief of staff, before serving as the head of the Yesha Council, the main political body representing Israeli settlers who live in occupied territory in violation of international law.
A year after becoming prime minister, Bennett dissolved parliament in a move that triggered Netanyahu’s reelection. Since then, Netanyahu has used his administration to oppose a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and –– in the aftermath of the Oct. 7 terror attacks — wage a campaign in Gaza that has killed tens of thousands of Palestinian men, women, and children. While Bennett has conveyed doubts about how the Netanyahu administration is waging that war, he still supports continued fighting above a ceasefire, only leading to more death and destruction.
In and out of office, Bennett has strongly argued against the creation of a Palestinian state, instead suggesting Israeli annexation of Area C in the West Bank — what he refers to as “Judea and Samaria,” biblical terms long associated with a strain of Israeli right-wing politics aiming to further oppress Palestinians and hinder the possibility of Palestinian statehood. He has said that “the most important thing is for Israel to build, build, build,” in reference to illegal West Bank settlements, and that he “will do everything in [his] power to oppose a Palestinian state.”
It is precisely rhetoric like Bennett’s that has increased state and settler violence against Palestinians in the West Bank.
Now, he’s saying that he will not include Arab parties in his government if his party, widely expected to be successful, wins in the October 2026 parliamentary elections. Approximately one-fifth of Israeli citizens are Arab — around two million people.
As progressive Jews, we oppose Naftali Bennett’s long encouragement of West Bank settlement and disregard of Palestinian autonomy. In the strongest possible terms, we reject encroachment on the West Bank that so often involves settler and state-backed violence toward Palestinians. We want to make it extremely clear that — even as the CJL, Chabad of Princeton, and program in Judaic studies cosponsor the upcoming event with Bennett — many Jews at Princeton strongly disagree with Bennett’s actions and statements.
The event is also remarkably closed. Again, to our knowledge, it was only disseminated to the CJL and Chabad listservs. Students must submit questions beforehand. We worry these questions may be filtered and that students may not be able to ask them themselves. Listening from outside of the event will be difficult — Bennett’s past events have been off-the-record, and we expect his Princeton appearance to be the same. Non-ticketed members of the student body will not even know where the event is being held, just that it will take place at an “off-campus location,” that ticketed members will not hear about until 24 hours before the event.
By limiting who attends these events and what topics can be discussed, Bennett avoids difficult but important conversations about his positions that could be started by Jewish and non-Jewish students alike who are not on the CJL or Chabad listserv. The framing of this event limits important discourse on a contentious issue on campus, precisely at a time where the exchange of ideas is so important.
Given the requirement for questions to be submitted beforehand, those who are attending will not be able to respond to what Bennett says over the course of the event and will have no idea of whether their submitted questions will even be asked in the first place.
We also worry that Bennett will use this event at Princeton as campaign material for his anticipated push to return to the Knesset, Israel’s parliament. The CJL’s flyer for the event acknowledges that “while Mr. Bennett has not yet announced his return to politics, he’s generally considered … the leading candidate to be the next Prime Minister of Israel.”
He has also appeared at Columbia and Yale, as well as Harvard — where he joked that if audience members were disruptive during the event, he would “just give them a pager,” referring to the September 2024 Israeli attacks in Lebanon where the Israelis detonated thousands of handheld pagers used by the militant group Hezbollah.
By using these events to talk about his life in business at Harvard or his return to politics here at Princeton, Bennett is drumming up diaspora support to advance his political aims of further subjugating Palestinians. Bennett seems to be starting his campaign trail on the campuses of U.S. colleges and universities. We refuse to be a stomping ground for his racist rhetoric and violent policies: As Jews and University affiliates, we write to say this invitation and endorsement of Bennett is not in our name.
Ultimately, it is important for us — as Jewish people — to stand against Naftali Bennett. We see the structure of this event as limiting free speech and civil discourse surrounding his presence. We don’t expect there to be space for dissent in Bennett’s talk next week, so consider this letter us making our own space: We dissent. We, the undersigned, object to Bennett’s threats of violence against students, history of actions normalizing inequality and violence toward Palestinians, and encouragement of illegal settlements in the West Bank. We urge our fellow Jewish students and other members of our campus community to join us.
Elena Eiss is a first-year from Pittsburgh, Pa., and Assistant Opinion Editor Charlie Yale is a first-year from Omaha, Neb. Both are leaders of the Alliance of Jewish Progressives.
Correction: The version of this open letter circulated for signatures said that the email promoting the lecture was only sent to the CJL listserv. In fact, it was also sent to the Chabad listserv.
Signed,
Emanuelle Sippy ’25
Martin Mastnak ’25
Ben Gelman ’23
Dylan Shapiro ’23
Hannah Gabelnick ’26
Bryce Springfield ’25
Katie Heinzer ’22
Jacob Neis GS, Classics
Mohamed El Hedi Bahri GS ’23, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Dane Lester ’28
Tom Abi Samra GS, Near Eastern Studies
Patrick Jaojoco GS, Architecture
Isaac Barsoum ’28
Aedan Fraley ’27
Max Weiss, Professor of History
Alan Plotz ’25
Jonathan Mandel GS, Art and Archaeology
Johana Lara ’25
Jo Goldman ’25
Sakura Price ’23
Annabelle Luo ’28
Curtis Deutsch, Professor of Geosciences and the High Meadows Environmental Institute
Aminah Aliu ’25
Emer Kilgallon ’25
Laurence Drayton ’26
Jeremy Zullow ’17
Jim LaRegina, Graduate/Undergraduate Administrator, Near Eastern Studies
Adam B. Sanders ’25
Josh Isaacs GS, Geosciences
Rio Baran ’25
Emmett Weisz ’27
Holly Bushman GS, Architecture
Narges Anzali ’28
Chris Stone GS ’02, Near Eastern Studies
Masha Musthafa ’25
Zahid Chaudhary, Associate Professor of English
Yahya Habib ’26
Nicholas Urbati ’25
Ariel Munczek Edelman GS, School of Public and International Affairs
Brandon Matthew Gauthier ’25
Connie Gong ’25
Katie Rohrbaugh ’24
Alliyah Gregory ’25
Gabby Styris ’28
Leila Granier ’26
Carter Lang ’27
Collin Guedel ’26
Alex Chauncey-Heine ’24
Blue Carlsson ’25
Kyrah Potter ’25
Georgia Martin ’27
Lucy Shea ’27
Rowan Johnson ’27
Jacob Jackson ’26
Lisa Clemans-Cope ’94
Christian Bischoff, GS, English
Matthew Mariman, Library Collections Specialist V, Princeton University Library
Sam Yamashita ’26
Sofia Menemenlis GS, Atmospheric and Oceanic Studies
Ana Sanchez-Martinez ’26
Pyo Tarapi ’28
Dana Benavides ’28
Yousuf Abdelfatah GS, Politics
Thomas Verrill ’25
Haley Choueiri ’25
Adham Ibrahim ’27
Salil Sharma, Postdoctoral Research Associate, Politics
Sophia Vernon ’27
Zoe Daly ’28
Callisto Lim ’28
Irene Kim ’28
Andrew Duke ’25
Angela Brown GS, Art and Archaeology
Noah Barkan ’28
Zachariah Sippy ’23
Ryan Oet GS, Computer Science
Jack Toubes ’25
Christian Salazar ’25
Salma Alhsni ’28
Yushra Guffer ’26
Valerie Neske ’25
Gyan Prakash, Dayton-Stockton Professor of History
Anha Khan ’26
Abigail Leibowitz ’26
Alex Norbrook ’26
Pria G. Jackson GS, Classics
Rachael Schnurr GS, History
Abdullah Rizvi ’27
Matt Heinle GS, Geosciences
Fatima Diallo ’25
Pedro Espino, Research Software Engineer II, Geosciences
Qiqi Yang GS, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Angie Rabih ’25
Amina Anowara ’25
Fawzia Afzal-Khan, Visiting Professor of Gender and Sexuality Studies
Tobias Rosen GS, Art and Archaeology
Fay Slakey GS, Comparative Literature
Meredith Martin, Professor of English
Hal Foster ’77, Townsend Martin, Class of 1917, Professor of Art and Archaeology
Lara Harb, Associate Professor of Near Eastern Studies
Eleanor Wright ’28
V. Mitch McEwen, Assistant Professor of Architecture
Molly Greene, Professor of History and Hellenic Studies
Quentin Colón Roosevelt ’27
Chaya Holch ’23
Nipuna Ginige ’26
Poorvi Bellur GS, History
Elena Milliken ’26
Aron Wander ’15
Tehseen Thaver, Assistant Professor of Religion
Khari Franklin ’24
Luz Victoria Simon Jasso ’24
Theodore Gross ’24
Victoria Koretsky ’26
Maya Rosen ’17
Lucy Carlin ’28
Cassie Eng ’25
Claire Nuchtern ’15
Ardon Shorr, Lecturer in the Princeton Writing Program
Kaleb Boyd ’24
Ibrahim Bata ’26
Nadine Lombardo-Han GS ’22, School of Public and International Affairs
April Alliston, Professor of Comparative Literature
Daniel Garber, A. Watson Armour III University Professor of Philosophy
Noura Shoukfeh ’25
Jabari Lawrence GS, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Wilson Conn ’25
Raghav Pradhan ’28
Nate Howard ’25
Sara Ryave ’24
Michelle Lerner ’93
Kristin Nagy ’27
Jessica Ng, Postdoctoral Research Associate, High Meadows Environmental Institute
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.A walkout, a fire alarm, and a group singing the Israeli national anthem.
A speaker event with former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett on Monday was interrupted at various points, with approximately 20 protesters walking out of the event, an extended disruption by an individual who does not appear to have an affiliation with Princeton in the middle, a subsequent fire alarm interruption, singing by the event’s attendees at the end, and yelling between protesters and event attendees in the courtyard after.
The off-the-record event, which was hosted by the Center of Jewish Life (CJL) and co-sponsored by the School of Public and International Affairs, the Program in Judaic Studies, Scharf Family Chabad House of Princeton, and the Mamdouha S. Bobst Center for Peace and Justice, was held in McCosh 10. Rabbi Gil Steinlauf ’91, the director of the CJL, moderated the discussion. Approximately 200 students, faculty, and other community members were in attendance.
Outside the building, about 200 pro-Palestine protesters chanted, screamed and banged on drums in a display of their dissatisfaction at the decision to host the former Israeli prime minister. The chants of protestors outside were audible inside the lecture hall throughout the talk, and reached as far as Firestone Library and the Architecture Building.
Steinlauf welcomed former Prime Minister of Israel Naftali Bennett to the stage shortly after 7:30 p.m. Before declaring that the event was off-the-record, Steinlauf briefly read through Princeton’s regulations on free speech and warned that disrupters would be removed from the event and may face sanctions.
After 20 minutes, about 20 demonstrators stood up and began chanting “Naftali Bennett, you can’t hide, we charge you with genocide.” They promptly walked out of the room to join the protest outside, followed out of the lecture hall by a free speech coordinator, a University staff member charged with enforcing regulations around protests. Outside, they were greeted with cheers from the demonstrators gathered in the courtyard.
A few minutes after, Sayel Kayed, a man sitting near the front, stood and began shouting at Bennett, quoting civilian death tolls in Gaza: “15,000 children killed, what do you say to that?” Kayed does not appear to have any connection to Princeton, and posted about the disruption on his Instagram.
Kayed — accompanied by a second individual videoing the disruption — continued shouting at Bennett for two minutes before he walked out, followed by Public Safety (PSafe) officers, a free speech coordinator, and Dean Jarrett Fisher, who often handles free speech-related events. Much of the audience applauded as Bennett delivered a rebuttal to Kayed.
“Instead of whining for the past 80 years and building your own future, you have focused on killing the Jews. It’s time the Palestinians stopped whining,” Bennett said, according to a video of the exchange posted on social media.
Alexandra Orbuch ’25, who was in attendance, expressed frustration that free speech facilitators had not intervened quickly enough in the incident. “They informed him that he was violating policy, but again, didn’t really lay a hand on him, didn’t do anything, and then escorted him out after he had disrupted the event for quite a while,” she told the ‘Prince.’
At 8:06 p.m., the fire alarm went off in McCosh and Dickinson Halls. Students and community members looked around in confusion before turning their attention to PSafe officers in the back of the hall for guidance. Minutes of confusion passed before it became clear that event attendees would not be evacuated from the building.
The University was unable to provide comment on the circumstances of the fire alarm before publication, although some attendees speculated it had been pulled by a protester.
Rabbi Eitan Webb then began singing “Kol Ha’olam Kulo Gesher Tzar Me’od” (The whole world is a very narrow bridge) and was joined by many of the event’s attendees, many of whom stood up from their seats and gathered around the stage. After the fire alarm was shut off at 8:17 p.m., attendees then sung Hatikvah — the national anthem of Israel — before the event concluded.
Steinlauf reacted to the disruptions that took place in a written statement to the ‘Prince,’ reiterating the Center for Jewish Life’s commitment to open dialogue and civil discourse in the face of differing viewpoints.
“The conversation with Prime Minister Bennett proceeded meaningfully, and the final disruption was met not with chaos, but with spontaneous singing, dancing, and a sense of unity in the room,” he wrote.
Also in attendance was Judah Guggenheim ’25, who led the opposition to last fall’s Undergraduate Student Government (USG) referendum calling for the University to divest from companies involved in weapons manufacturing. He provided The Daily Princetonian with a written statement of his reaction to the disruption.
“It saddens me that the disrupters showed no sense of nuance. They shouted and pulled the fire alarm rather than listening to [Bennett] be asked and respond to difficult questions,” he wrote.
Other attendees also speculated that a protester had intentionally pulled the fire alarm.
Maddy Denker ’27, a member of J Street U, expressed disappointment over what she characterized as Bennett’s misappropriation of Jewish liturgy. “The statements made by Bennett do not represent the beliefs of all Jewish students and they do not represent J Street U’s pro-peace mission,” she wrote. About five J Street U members donned anti-occupation t-shirts and brought signage to the event.
PSafe presence in the area surrounding McCosh hall was notable, with officers guarding every entrance of McCosh and Dickinson Halls and additional officers stationed throughout the area around the event. Two fences spanning the length of McCosh courtyard were set up with a few feet between then, creating a “buffer zone” between the north side of McCosh courtyard and McCosh 10.
After rallying at Nassau Hall around 7 p.m., the protesters marched across campus to the location of the event. Positioning themselves facing a large window that looks into McCosh 10, protesters chanted continuously from 7:10 through the end of the event. Among their chants were cries of “shame,” directed at event attendees. At points during the event, a protester directed a bright flashlight into the window of McCosh 10.
The protest promotion highlighted a 2013 quote from Bennett that “I already killed lots of Arabs in my life, and there is absolutely no problem with that,” a comment a Bennett spokesperson said at the time was misinterpreted. Bennett, a right-wing figure in Israel, recently announced his return to politics.
When attendees left the event, the protesters again broke out into calls of “shame.”
Around 20 people coming out of the event then gathered along the McCosh 10 side of the buffer zone fence, and some protesters and attendees got into verbal confrontations, with individuals on both sides of the fence hurling charged insults and accusations. The environment was notably more tense than previous protests, with arguments between protesters and attendees lasting for over 30 minutes following the event.
A few protesters breached the fence and entered the buffer zone, prompting security personnel and PSafe officers to instruct the protesters to back up. When protesters did not comply, one officer entered into the crowd and pushed them back. That officer was then pulled back by another after the crowd erupted in angry shouts. Protesters remained in the buffer zone for some time before moving back behind the fence.
The University was unable to provide comment on the circumstances of the PSafe incident before publication.
While many of the protesters were students and community members, some were from outside groups. Several members of Neturei Karta International, an anti-zionist Haredi Jewish organization, marched alongside protesters with signs decrying the ongoing conflict in Gaza. Rabbi Dovid Feldman, part of Neturei Karta, spoke with the ‘Prince’ to explain why they were there.
“If we truly want to see a better future, we must address the root cause. We have to address the occupation. We have to stop the occupation in its entirety, for the sake of the oppressed Palestinian people who deserve freedom, and for the sake of the Jewish people who deserve safety and security, all of us deserve a better future,” he said.
Also in attendance was Mahmoud Desouky, who spoke over the megaphone. Desouky is a graduate from Rutgers University and is running for N.J. State Assembly in the 16th District, which he discussed in his speech to the crowd.
“This is the time for change,” Desouky said.
The protest dissipated around 9 p.m., around half an hour after the event ended.
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Pensacola, Fla. and typically covers community activism, the state of higher education, and construction and architecture.
Devon Rudolph is an associate News editor and staff Sports writer for the ‘Prince.’ She is from northern Virginia and typically covers student life and USG.
Kian Petlin is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
Last month, I had the chance to review Princeton’s Report of the Treasurer for the 2024 fiscal year. Having spent most of my working time since 1967 as Chairman of a quite successful mid-size financial company that has made a respectable profit every year, I have read a number of financial statements in my time. But Princeton’s report this year has made me quite concerned.
Princeton University Investment Company (PRINCO), the University’s investment office, has invested much of its money in illiquid assets which could be difficult to turn into cash quickly at an amount close to the value listed on the University’s financial statements.
In a volatile political environment, our lack of liquidity limits how fast we can draw from the endowment, as well as how sure we are about its true value. With Princeton under threat of funding cuts from the federal government, liquidity is essential.
With our current investment distribution, the endowment hasn’t been doing so well in recent years. Last valued at $34.1 billion, it declined by 1.7 percent in the fiscal year 2023 (FY2023) and gained 3.9 percent in FY2024. By comparison, the S&P 500 stock index was up 17.7 percent and 22.7 percent each year respectively (excluding dividends).
There are two key risks to investing in illiquid assets. The first and more obvious one is that in times of need, it is difficult or impossible to sell off these assets without a large discount. The second, more insidious problem is that it can be difficult to accurately value illiquid assets. While widely traded securities have well-defined market prices at which the security can be immediately purchased or sold, it can be difficult to determine the true value of an illiquid asset due to the lack of an active market.
At the end of FY2024, at least 62 percent of Princeton’s gross managed investments were allocated to illiquid assets that the University has indicated were “non-redeemable” — that is, held in funds where the University has no contractual right to cash out their share on demand. The redemption terms for the remaining portion are also restricted in various ways, including some that can only be redeemed annually.
Though the FY2024 Treasurer’s report did not feature the standard “Report on Investments” from the President of PRINCO, the Report on Investments from FY2023 by now-retired PRINCO president Andrew Golden yields some details on the rationale behind PRINCO’s asset class allocations. For 2024, the target allocation towards a group of mostly illiquid assets — independent return, private equity, and real assets — was 72 percent. But we are overshooting even that. The actual allocation in FY2023 was 76.2 percent.
Despite private equity’s 11 percent decline in value in FY2023, Golden defended the long term allocation into the asset class, noting that it had outperformed expectations over the past 10 years.
Another grave concern I have stems from the difficulty in ascertaining the true value of these illiquid assets. U.S. accounting standards typically require that assets be measured at “fair value,” defined as “the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.” However, less than nine percent of the University’s assets under management are actually accounted for under the standard fair value hierarchy.
The rest are instead valued by an accounting measure known as “net asset value as a practical expedient.” This is a standard accounting measure often used for private equity funds, where it may be impossible to determine the true fair value of the investment using the fair value hierarchy. The trouble with net asset value is that it is not a “real” valuation in the sense that the University can actually sell its assets at the Net Asset Value (NAV) price — in fact, the University acknowledges that in general, “investments in [private equity] are not redeemable.” These funds are typically structured as limited partnerships with a contractual life of 10 years.
Moreover, valuations of private equity assets are often volatile and require subjective judgments — the University notes that it may use “discounted cash flow analysis and other industry standard methodologies,” which implicitly require assumptions about future market performance and discount rates. Ultimately, it is difficult to take these valuations without a grain of salt.
Without a reliable measurement of the endowment’s true value, it also becomes difficult to have meaningful conversations about how to spend it. If the actual value of our private equity investments were much lower at redemption than NAV would make it seem, we would be in for a very nasty surprise. Effectively, we need to incorporate a measure of risk and uncertainty when looking at valuations of the endowment.
In good times, a large allocation of funds into illiquid assets may not draw significant scrutiny. After all, doing so allows us to harvest both risk premia and so-called “illiquidity premia,” the compensation for holding an asset that may not be easily saleable.
But we are not in good times anymore. The Trump administration’s misguided tariff policy has resulted in significant headwinds for businesses and increased volatility, including for the categories of independent return and private equity. The administration has already demonstrated hostility to elite universities and their endowments, with Republican members of Congress proposing various taxes ranging from a 21 percent excise tax on endowment returns to a one-time lump-sum six percent tax on the entire value of the endowment. Any of these proposals could cripple the University’s largest revenue stream.
Moreover, Princeton needs to prepare for potentially large drawdowns from its endowment. Last week, the federal government moved to freeze federal grants to Princeton that fund critical research. In order to sustain these projects, Princeton must be prepared to dip into its endowment to replace the funding that the government has taken away. University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 has signaled that the University does not intend to acquiesce to all the government’s demands, but doing so will require larger endowment drawdowns. The necessity of liquidity in such a situation is manifest.
At a time like this, Princeton’s investment strategy is, I believe, far too risky. I believe preservation of capital and significant liquidity should be Princeton’s guiding principle.  Most importantly, there should be greater light shone on the endowment and how it is invested. To quote from Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis, “sunlight is the best antiseptic.”
Leonard Milberg ’53 is the chairman of Milberg Factors Inc. He is a longtime patron of art and literature. Among other University affiliations, he has co-sponsored the Ellen and Leonard Milberg Gallery in the lobby of Firestone Library and endowed two professorships, and has received the Award for Service to Princeton. He can be reached at lmilberg[at]milfac.com.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.On a rainy Saturday afternoon, the No. 3 men’s lacrosse (8–2 overall, 2–1 Ivy League) beat Vermont (4–5 overall, 2–1 America East Conference) 10–5 in their final nonconference game this season. After playing an intense stretch of three games in seven days, the Tigers picked up a momentum-building win heading into the final three games of the regular season.
Despite the brisk weather, Princeton got hot quickly. Senior attacker Coulter Mackesy recorded an impressive hat trick after just the first seven minutes of play. Mackesy’s finesse was on display, scoring his first goal unassisted before capitalizing on assists from sophomore attacker Nate Kabiri and first-year attacker Peter Buananno to make it 3–0 with 8:11 to go in the first quarter.
OOOO WEE 91‼️‼️‼️ pic.twitter.com/mnFby0RxGc
When asked about his quick start, Mackesy pointed to the work his teammates did to create opportunities for him.
“Our middies, we like to call them good party starters,” he told The Daily Princetonian. “They get the defense rotating, and then once the ball swings to me it’s a good time to dodge. All the work’s done, there’s no slide ready, so it’s a good time for me to go.”
With a little over a minute to go, junior attacker Chad Palumbo added to the lead with a low-to-high missile, putting Princeton ahead 4–0.
At the end of the first, Princeton held Vermont to zero goals. Junior goalie Ryan Croddick made several solid saves, adding onto an already extremely impressive first season as a starter. As a whole, the defense looked impenetrable, forcing several turnovers. Notably, senior long stick midfielder Michael Bath moved up to third all time in Princeton history for forced turnovers.
“Vermont is a slide and recover team,” Head Coach Matt Madalon told the ‘Prince’ postgame. “We were a little tight not to slide as much early on, and I think it gave them some trouble.”
“They started to figure it out later in the game,” Madalon added, alluding to the Catamounts’ two goals late in the fourth quarter.
After Croddick started the second quarter with a save, Mackesy netted his fourth goal of the game. The score was the senior star’s 31st of the year, putting his career total at 152. Mackesy now trails only Jesse Hubbard by 11 for most career goals in Princeton history, a milestone he has a very good chance of reaching as the regular season winds to a close.
Mackesy with his FOURTH. 5-0, Tigers. pic.twitter.com/461J7ahGto
Following a goal from sophomore attacker Colin Burns, Vermont finally snuck one past the defense with 7:03 to play, making the score 6–1.
The first half finished with Princeton ahead 7–1 thanks to a goal from Palumbo. It was a dominant 30 minutes of play for the Tigers who outshot the Catamounts 27–12. On the day, although Princeton had over 50 shots on goal, Mackesy was not satisfied.
“We’ve discussed that getting shots is not hard for us,” Mackesy told the ‘Prince.’ “It’s about getting the right shots, so I think it’s more about the end score than the shots.”
In the second half, Princeton finally began to slow down. While goals from Kabiri and Burns gave the Tigers a 10–3 lead heading into the final quarter of play, the offense seemed to lose some of its potency from the first half.
BURNS BURNS IT 😊 9-2. pic.twitter.com/IBBhqEmwSx
In the fourth, Princeton was held scoreless while Vermont tacked on two more. Although they allowed two goals, the defense played well with Bath and senior short stick defensive midfielder Michael Kelly recording forced turnovers. After the final whistle, the Tigers were ahead of the Catamounts 10–5.
A notable trend for Princeton on Saturday was its long possessions. Offensive possessions often used up the entire shot clock, and the Tigers got many second and occasionally third chance opportunities by collecting rebounds and scooping ground balls.
While these prolonged possessions allowed Princeton to beef up their shot numbers, not many of them found the back of the net, ending with only ten goals against an unranked opponent. Nevertheless, the win was a confidence booster as the team begins to prepare for what is shaping up to be a competitive NCAA Tournament.
“We’re just going to keep getting better and try to make the shots the best ones possible, up our shooting percentage, and then just get more efficient,” Mackesy stated.
Next Saturday, Princeton starts a stretch of three Ivy League games with a matchup against Brown (3–7, 0–3) at Sherrerd Field.
“They handled the business, three games in seven days,” Madalon told the ‘Prince.’ “Now they get to settle in and take one Ivy at a time. We’re looking forward to it.”
Doug Schwartz is an associate Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The University is investigating the disruption of a speaker event on Monday with former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 wrote to The Daily Princetonian on Tuesday. Eisgruber also said that he had personally apologized to Bennett and said he was “appalled at reports of antisemitic language” outside the event.
Eisgruber’s statement followed a letter written by Danielle Shapiro ’25 and Maximillian Meyer ’27, the respective presidents of pro-Israel student groups B’Artzeinu Princeton and Princeton Tigers for Israel. The letter accused protesters of antisemitism, asking Eisgruber to implement a campus-wide mask ban and dissolve Princeton’s chapter of Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP). The letter also called on Eisgruber to issue a public apology to Bennett and initiate disciplinary action against the protesters.
The event with Bennett was initially disrupted by 20 demonstrators shouting “Naftali Bennett, you can’t hide, we charge you with genocide” before walking out of the lecture hall the event was being held in. Another protester disrupted the event several minutes later, yelling at Bennett and refusing to leave for several minutes before being walked out by Public Safety officers and free speech coordinators. The event was further derailed when the fire alarm went off, an action that some have attributed to protesters. Attendees then began singing, including the Israeli national anthem.
Outside, over 200 protesters chanted in McCosh courtyard throughout the duration of the event. As people from the talk spilled into the courtyard, interactions between protesters and event attendees became tense, with people on both sides of the fence shouting at each other.
Despite the presence of protesters at the event, Rabbi Gil Steinlauf ’91, the executive director of the Center for Jewish Life (CJL), highlighted the perceived success of the event in a written statement to the CJL community on Tuesday.
“Those who tried to silence us could not succeed,” he wrote. “Their efforts to disrupt the event instead brought forth something even stronger: a joyful, defiant affirmation of Jewish life and identity.”
The event was a rare example of a speaker being shouted down at Princeton. It comes a week after the Trump administration suspended several dozen grants to the University, citing a pending investigation into antisemitism on campus from last April.
The letter from Meyer and Shapiro describes a number of alleged remarks at the protests as antisemitic, including “go back to Europe,” “you’re all fucking inbred,” and “inbred swine.” The letter also claimed that a protester used an upside-down triangle symbol, which has been used by Hamas’s military wing to identify Israeli targets.
SJP did not respond to multiple requests for comment. In a statement sent to student listservs on Monday afternoon, it decried the University’s decision to host Bennett and wrote that “many were seen dancing and laughing to the protestors’ chants.”
A post on Meyer’s X account appears to show a single protester repeatedly yelling “go back to Europe” to Jewish students on the other side of the fence. Another post captured a protester making an upside-down triangle with their hands. The Daily Princetonian was unable to verify the validity of the other two claims in the letter.
Antisemitic intimidation was on full display at Princeton.Protesters flashed the Hamas triangle at Jewish students outside of Bennett’s talk — and one masked figure evaded an attempted detainment by ditching his frightening face covering.This isn’t activism. It’s hate. pic.twitter.com/xiVQC8xGCG
“Such behavior is reprehensible and intolerable. The University is investigating and will pursue disciplinary measures as appropriate, to the extent any members of the Princeton University community are implicated,” Eisgruber wrote in his statement.
He added that the University was already “taking action” against one protester who was not a University affiliate.
Eisgruber also issued an apology to Bennett.
“Prime Minister Bennett, like all speakers on our campus, had every right to be heard without disruption and to be treated with dignity. I have expressed my regrets personally to Mr. Bennett and thanked him for visiting our campus,” he wrote.
“While we appreciate President Eisgruber’s apology to PM Bennett, condemnation of antisemitism, and commitment to open an investigation, his statement is ultimately a band-aid over years of failed University policies and unwillingness to enforce existing rules. If free speech truly remains Princeton’s cornerstone, punishments for students who violated it last night must clearly reflect the gravity of that breach,” Shapiro wrote to the ‘Prince.’ Similar thoughts were shared by Shapiro in a piece published late Tuesday night in The Free Press.
Calls to ban masks, included in the letter from Meyer and Shapiro, have been a particular flash point between the Trump administration and universities. Columbia University recently banned face coverings for the purpose of obscuring identities as part of its efforts to comply with demands from the government following significant cuts to its federal funding. Additionally, the Trump administration demanded last week that Harvard also ban masks as a condition to avoid losing federal funding.
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Pensacola, Fla. and typically covers community activism, the state of higher education, and construction and architecture.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On Tuesday, the Municipality of Princeton took formal ownership of the Westminster Choir College campus, a 23-acre property about a 10-minute walk due north of the Engineering Quad.
In a press release, officials confirmed that the town had finalized its $42 million acquisition from Rider University, with the sale approved by Judge Robert Lougy of the New Jersey Superior Court on March 5 and formal recording done with the Mercer County Clerk this week.
Council President Mia Sacks said in the press release that the property would be adapted for public facility needs, which she called “urgent.”
“We look forward to engaging the community over the next 18 months in a multi-faceted planning exercise with robust public engagement and maximum stakeholder input,” she added.
In the press release, Deputy Administrator Deanna Stockton said in the latest release that the municipality has been working closely with Rider University on “a seamless transition,” covering matters such as security, IT, landscaping, and fire systems.
Princeton officials have hired Topology, a New Jersey-based planning firm, to assist with development.
The acquisition comes after more than half a decade of lawsuits, public resistance, and concern over the historic site’s future. Originally gifted to Westminster in 1935 by philanthropist Sophia Strong Taylor for the purpose of training ministers of music, the property has become the subject of legal disputes over whether its religious covenant prohibits transfer to secular entities.
Westminster remained independent until 1991, when severe financial difficulties led to a merger with Rider University. According to court records, the Princeton Theological Seminary declined to assume administrative control, prompting the merger, despite conflicting with Taylor’s original stipulations. As part of the agreement, Rider committed to preserving Westminster’s original programs and mission.
In 2016, facing major financial shortfalls, Rider University announced plans to sell, relocate, or shut down Westminster Choir College. The decision triggered backlash from students, faculty, and alumni, who formed the Westminster Foundation to preserve the college in Princeton.
A 2018 lawsuit filed by the Foundation and faculty members successfully blocked Rider’s attempted sale of the campus to Beijing Kaiwen Education Technology Company. That same year, Princeton Theological Seminary also sued Rider, arguing the 1991 merger agreement required Westminster to remain on its original campus. That case remains unresolved.
The property has remained vacant since 2020, after Rider University’s decision to move the Choir College programs to Rider’s Lawrenceville campus.
Despite the legal resolutions this week, the acquisition is unlikely to bring an end to the legal challenges.
In September, Attorney Bruce Afran, representing the Westminster Foundation and advising Princeton Theological Seminary in related lawsuits, said that “the town will not avoid heavy litigation.”
The announcement comes after public meetings that were held last fall, when town council members approved ordinances to pursue acquisition despite opposition from Westminster faculty, alumni, and preservationists. Critics expressed concern that the site’s musical legacy would be lost and questioned the town’s ability to responsibly manage the facility’s cultural infrastructure.
At the time, longtime Westminster Conservatory teacher Amy Wolf warned that the property’s musical resources should be preserved and feared it might instead be turned into “a 22-acre soccer field.” Other residents questioned the transparency of the acquisition process and called for the formation of a public task force to ensure accountability.
The three nonprofits currently operating on the site — Music Together, Princeton Pro Musica, and the Greater Princeton Youth Orchestra — have had their licenses transferred to the town. The municipality is working to allow the Westminster Conservatory to continue operations on the property.
Princeton Mayor Mark Freda echoed a sense of optimism. “We are pleased that the legal hurdles involving the acquisition of this property have finally been resolved,” he said in the press release. “We are eager to move forward together with the community to come up with the best plan for this site and our residents.”
As public planning efforts are set to begin, it remains to be seen whether the town’s vision will live up to the historic legacy of the Choir college and whether it can withstand the legal battles that ensue.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and education director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Glendale, Calif.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Princeton’s softball (14–13 overall, 8–1 Ivy League) team defeated Dartmouth (12–13 overall, 5–4 Ivy League) over the weekend in a three-game series, splitting the first two matches and trouncing the Big Green with a final game win of 14–6.
This victory comes on the heels of another major Tiger victory last weekend against Yale with a sweep of the series. Princeton is currently ranked No. 1 in the Ivy League.
The first game of the series got off to a slow start, with no runs being scored for the first eight innings. Princeton was first to put points on the board in the ninth inning, with sophomore outfielder Karis Ford hitting a solo home run. In the bottom of the inning, Dartmouth matched Princeton’s one run with a lone homer of their own.
Going into the tenth inning, the score was tied at 1–1. The Tigers were unable to secure another run and lost to Dartmouth in the bottom of the inning by a third solo home run as Justice Malone hit a walk-off home run to win the game for the Big Green, 2–1.
“The team knew we were not at our best on Friday — Brielle Wright was incredibly gritty on the mound and gave us a good chance to win,” head coach Lisa Van Ackeren wrote in a statement to The Daily Princetonian. “We didn’t capitalize on some opportunities, so our goal was to get back to who we are, especially offensively, and buy into the game plan.”
In the second game, Dartmouth started off strong, scoring two runs in the first inning and maintaining the 2–0 lead through the third inning. The Tigers gained the lead after scoring five runs in the fourth inning, and widened the gap further with seven additional runs in the sixth.
These runs were scored with eight hits, one walk, one RBI, and one sacrifice fly ball. Junior infielder Julia Dumais secured five runs for the team, scoring twice herself and hitting two RBIs. Sophomore infielder Graciela Dominguez also brought in two runs and two RBIs.
Dartmouth finished out the last inning with two runs, for a final score of 12–4 and a Princeton victory. Sophomore pitcher Cassidy Shaw struck out nine Dartmouth players, tying her career record set last year against Penn.
Walking into the last game, the Tigers knew a win would secure a series victory and maintain their Ivy League rankings. The game got off to an eventful start, with both teams scoring in the first inning, and back-and-forth runs through the next two innings, assisted by senior outfielder Lauren Sablone hitting a triple in the third.
Headed into the sixth and final inning of the game, Princeton was down 6–4 when they began their comeback. With 10 hits and two home runs, the Tigers scored 10 points to reclaim the lead and held off Dartmouth through the bottom of the inning for a final score of 14–6. This inning, first-year catcher Braeden Hale brought in the hit with a triple down the right field line. The two home runs were hit by Ford and first-year infielder Jessica Phelps, and sophomore infielder Sonia Zhang hit a double, then a single.
“We don’t have one star,” Ackeren wrote. “We have a lot of incredibly talented and consistent athletes on our team, which makes us dangerous. There’s a different person who steps up each game that we play.”
The plan moving forward for the team, according to Ackeren, is simple: “To see how good we can get.”
The Tigers will play away at Cornell (12–11 overall, 4–5 Ivy League) this weekend in another three-game series, followed by Columbia (12–13 overall, 6–3 Ivy League) at Cynthia Lynn Paul ’94 Field April 18-19.
Devon Rudolph is an associate News editor and staff Sports writer for the ‘Prince.’ She is from northern Virginia and typically covers student life and USG.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Junior star guard Xaivian Lee's agent announced via ESPN on Friday that he intends to enter the transfer portal. Lee will maintain his college eligibility and also test the National Basketball Association (NBA) draft process once more, doing so less than a year after withdrawing from the 2024 NBA Draft to return for his junior season at Princeton.
“These past three years at Princeton have been the most meaningful of my life,” Lee wrote in a statement posted to his Instagram story. “This place has shaped me as a person and challenged me. It gave me a platform to chase my dreams and now Princeton is a place I know I can always call home.”
Lee enters the portal with a “Do Not Contact” tag, a designation indicating that he is proactively managing his recruitment and does not wish to be approached by programs unless he or his agent initiates contact.
The decision comes after a season in which the Ivy League preseason favorite Tigers fell in the Ivy Madness semifinals and assistant coaches Brett MacConnell and Lawrence Rowley were not retained. MacConnell recruited Lee, who emerged as a standout following his rookie year.
"Xaivian shared his decision to enter the transfer portal," Head Coach Mitch Henderson ’98 wrote to the Daily Princetonian. "He's a tremendous member of this program and we support him in exploring what's best for him as a person, student and basketball player"
In two seasons as a starter, Lee has cemented himself as one of the best players ever to wear the Orange and Black. A two-time unanimous first team All-Ivy selection, this season Lee became the first Tiger to record a triple-double, after an 18 point, 13 rebound, and 10 assist performance against St Joe’s. Lee secured a second triple-double in the Tigers' final game of the regular season against Penn.
Across his sophomore and junior seasons, Lee consistently delivered. In the 2023–24 season, he averaged 17.1 points, 5.7 rebounds, and 3.7 assists per game, becoming one of just five underclassmen nationally to average at least 16 points, five rebounds, and three assists.
He followed that up with an even stronger junior campaign, posting 16.9 points, 6.1 rebounds, and 5.5 assists per game while leading the Ivy League in assist-to-turnover ratio. Lee notched two 30-point games in each of the past two seasons and hit game-winners against Columbia and Dartmouth.
“To my teammates — ya'll know what it is,” Lee wrote. "There's no other group I would've rather gone through the ups and downs with.”
While many expected Lee to declare for the NBA Draft after this season, transferring was thought to be less likely. The latest Bleacher Report mock draft projects him as the 52nd overall pick.
In the modern National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), the high levels of name, image, and likeness (NIL) compensation attracts successful student athletes to stay in college and forgo the pros for a year or two. Lee's decision represents this fundamental change in collegiate sports.
Lee immediately becomes one of the most sought-after players in the transfer portal and is expected to draw interest from high-major programs across the country. Given his recent success, Lee will receive significant NIL interest, with offers likely exceeding seven figures.
Without Lee, the Tigers lose their primary playmaker and leader, and the outlook for next season becomes far less clear. While players like sophomore guard Dalen Davis and junior forward Caden Pierce, a former Ivy League Player of the Year, are expected to take on larger roles, his departure could prompt others to re-evaluate their own futures with the program.
With Lee now in the portal, he is eligible to be contacted by other programs immediately. The spring transfer window closes on May 1, giving him a few weeks to weigh his options before making a decision.
Lee ended his statement by saying, “To the faculty, fans, and community — I wouldn't be much without you. Thanks for giving me the opportunity to represent you, I have nothing but love and gratitude for the school. I hope you continue to follow my story as I willl always do the same."
This story is breaking and will be updated as more details emerge.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and education director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Glendale, Calif.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.One of the best years in Princeton track and field history continued this Friday as the Tigers dominated the Sam Howell Invitational, their first home meet of the outdoor season. Princeton athletes topped the podium in 25 out of 43 events and rewrote several school records in the process.
So far this year, the Tigers have asserted themselves on the national stage and commanded the Ivy League, with both the men’s and women’s squads looking to earn triple crown honors. The season’s first showdown at Weaver Stadium was no departure from this exceptional standard.
Three Tigers etched their names atop the school record books on Friday. Seniors Mena Scatchard and Adelaide Asante, who have both made a habit of accumulating records this year, added to their collections, claiming the all-time 5000m and 200m titles, respectively. Not to let the upperclassmen have all the fun, first-year Jacob Nenow grabbed his first school-leading mark in the 10000m.
Asante clocked a 23.66 in the 200m to dip under the old record by just one hundredth of a second. She led a Tiger 1–2–5 finish of herself, junior Maisha Atkinson, and junior Georgina Scoot, who also earned a victory in the long jump.
Asante already owned the indoor school record at the distance, a 24.05 second performance set this year at Heps, just hours after she also took the all-time Princeton crown in the 60m hurdles.
Asante was a key part of the women’s Ivy League victory indoors, bringing home 12 points in individual events and eight more in the 4x400m relay. She will likely play a big role in the triple crown chase in one month’s time.
Scatchard opened her outdoor season just as she closed her indoor campaign, smashing records and dominating races. Fresh off of a runner-up finish in the NCAA indoor championships mile, Scatchard jumped up in distance to contest the 5000m at Sam Howell.
Expectedly departing from her characteristic championship strategy of sitting and kicking, Scatchard went to the front early and spent much of the race completely alone in first place. She held on to earn the win in 15:48.24, marking her seventh school record across indoor and outdoor track.
Also in the women’s 5000m, sophomores Anna McNatt and Peyton Leigh and senior Lucca Fulkerson all ran under 16:40, finishing 5th, 6th, and 8th.
The meet finished with its longest event, the 10000m. Racing under the lights, Nenow and senior Nick Bendtsen mounted an attack on the school record, held by Bendtsen’s older brother Chris Bendtsen ’14.
The record would not stay in the family, as Nenow gapped his senior teammate in the final lap. The two would both finish well under the old mark of 28:49.08, clocking 28:23.60 and 28:25.21 for the top two places in the race.
The 25-lap race was a true team effort. Senior Harrison Witt and junior Connor McCormick paced the duo for much of the race, and Nenow and Bendtsen traded the top position back and forth in the final laps.
“I am super excited about … being able to work together with Nick for a fast 10K time. It wouldn’t have been possible for us without Harrison and Connor pacing us through over half of the race,” Nenow wrote to The Daily Princetonian.
“I am so blessed to be on a team where everyone on the team supports one another and helps each other out,” he added. “Almost everyone on the team was down on the track cheering for us every lap.”
While the duo crushed the school record, that was not their only goal. Nenow told the ‘Prince’ that they were focused on getting a strong time to qualify for the NCAA East Regional Championships.
Qualifying for the national championships outdoors is a bit different than the indoor process. The country is split into two regions, east and west, and the top 48 individuals per event in each region earn invitations to a regional championship meet. The top 12 finishers in each regional race will then head to nationals in Eugene, Oregon.
Nenow and Bendtsen are currently ranked 17th and 20th in the east’s 10000m rankings. 27 Princetonians are currently ranked top 48 in the region in one or multiple events.
Collectively, the Tigers have already shown excellent form early in the season. On the horizon, Princeton will host two other home meets this year, the Larry Ellis Invitational on May 2–3 and the Princeton Elite on May 17.
Luke Stockless is a staff Sports writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is an open letter and reflects the authors’ views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
On Monday, the Center for Jewish Life (CJL) is hosting ex-Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett for a conversation on his political career. The event is ticketed, will be held at an off-campus location, and, to our knowledge, was only advertised to the CJL and Chabad listservs. While it is the CJL’s right to host Bennett, we, as Jewish students, disavow and spurn the rhetoric that he has spread across college campuses in the United States, and call on others to join us.
Between 2006 and 2008, Bennett served as Benjamin Netanyahu’s chief of staff, before serving as the head of the Yesha Council, the main political body representing Israeli settlers who live in occupied territory in violation of international law.
A year after becoming prime minister, Bennett dissolved parliament in a move that triggered Netanyahu’s reelection. Since then, Netanyahu has used his administration to oppose a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and –– in the aftermath of the Oct. 7 terror attacks — wage a campaign in Gaza that has killed tens of thousands of Palestinian men, women, and children. While Bennett has conveyed doubts about how the Netanyahu administration is waging that war, he still supports continued fighting above a ceasefire, only leading to more death and destruction.
In and out of office, Bennett has strongly argued against the creation of a Palestinian state, instead suggesting Israeli annexation of Area C in the West Bank — what he refers to as “Judea and Samaria,” biblical terms long associated with a strain of Israeli right-wing politics aiming to further oppress Palestinians and hinder the possibility of Palestinian statehood. He has said that “the most important thing is for Israel to build, build, build,” in reference to illegal West Bank settlements, and that he “will do everything in [his] power to oppose a Palestinian state.”
It is precisely rhetoric like Bennett’s that has increased state and settler violence against Palestinians in the West Bank.
Now, he’s saying that he will not include Arab parties in his government if his party, widely expected to be successful, wins in the October 2026 parliamentary elections. Approximately one-fifth of Israeli citizens are Arab — around two million people.
As progressive Jews, we oppose Naftali Bennett’s long encouragement of West Bank settlement and disregard of Palestinian autonomy. In the strongest possible terms, we reject encroachment on the West Bank that so often involves settler and state-backed violence toward Palestinians. We want to make it extremely clear that — even as the CJL, Chabad of Princeton, and program in Judaic studies cosponsor the upcoming event with Bennett — many Jews at Princeton strongly disagree with Bennett’s actions and statements.
The event is also remarkably closed. Again, to our knowledge, it was only disseminated to the CJL and Chabad listservs. Students must submit questions beforehand. We worry these questions may be filtered and that students may not be able to ask them themselves. Listening from outside of the event will be difficult — Bennett’s past events have been off-the-record, and we expect his Princeton appearance to be the same. Non-ticketed members of the student body will not even know where the event is being held, just that it will take place at an “off-campus location,” that ticketed members will not hear about until 24 hours before the event.
By limiting who attends these events and what topics can be discussed, Bennett avoids difficult but important conversations about his positions that could be started by Jewish and non-Jewish students alike who are not on the CJL or Chabad listserv. The framing of this event limits important discourse on a contentious issue on campus, precisely at a time where the exchange of ideas is so important.
Given the requirement for questions to be submitted beforehand, those who are attending will not be able to respond to what Bennett says over the course of the event and will have no idea of whether their submitted questions will even be asked in the first place.
We also worry that Bennett will use this event at Princeton as campaign material for his anticipated push to return to the Knesset, Israel’s parliament. The CJL’s flyer for the event acknowledges that “while Mr. Bennett has not yet announced his return to politics, he’s generally considered … the leading candidate to be the next Prime Minister of Israel.”
He has also appeared at Columbia and Yale, as well as Harvard — where he joked that if audience members were disruptive during the event, he would “just give them a pager,” referring to the September 2024 Israeli attacks in Lebanon where the Israelis detonated thousands of handheld pagers used by the militant group Hezbollah.
By using these events to talk about his life in business at Harvard or his return to politics here at Princeton, Bennett is drumming up diaspora support to advance his political aims of further subjugating Palestinians. Bennett seems to be starting his campaign trail on the campuses of U.S. colleges and universities. We refuse to be a stomping ground for his racist rhetoric and violent policies: As Jews and University affiliates, we write to say this invitation and endorsement of Bennett is not in our name.
Ultimately, it is important for us — as Jewish people — to stand against Naftali Bennett. We see the structure of this event as limiting free speech and civil discourse surrounding his presence. We don’t expect there to be space for dissent in Bennett’s talk next week, so consider this letter us making our own space: We dissent. We, the undersigned, object to Bennett’s threats of violence against students, history of actions normalizing inequality and violence toward Palestinians, and encouragement of illegal settlements in the West Bank. We urge our fellow Jewish students and other members of our campus community to join us.
Elena Eiss is a first-year from Pittsburgh, Pa., and Assistant Opinion Editor Charlie Yale is a first-year from Omaha, Neb. Both are leaders of the Alliance of Jewish Progressives.
Correction: The version of this open letter circulated for signatures said that the email promoting the lecture was only sent to the CJL listserv. In fact, it was also sent to the Chabad listserv.
Signed,
Emanuelle Sippy ’25
Martin Mastnak ’25
Ben Gelman ’23
Dylan Shapiro ’23
Hannah Gabelnick ’26
Bryce Springfield ’25
Katie Heinzer ’22
Jacob Neis GS, Classics
Mohamed El Hedi Bahri GS ’23, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Dane Lester ’28
Tom Abi Samra GS, Near Eastern Studies
Patrick Jaojoco GS, Architecture
Isaac Barsoum ’28
Aedan Fraley ’27
Max Weiss, Professor of History
Alan Plotz ’25
Jonathan Mandel GS, Art and Archaeology
Johana Lara ’25
Jo Goldman ’25
Sakura Price ’23
Annabelle Luo ’28
Curtis Deutsch, Professor of Geosciences and the High Meadows Environmental Institute
Aminah Aliu ’25
Emer Kilgallon ’25
Laurence Drayton ’26
Jeremy Zullow ’17
Jim LaRegina, Graduate/Undergraduate Administrator, Near Eastern Studies
Adam B. Sanders ’25
Josh Isaacs GS, Geosciences
Rio Baran ’25
Emmett Weisz ’27
Holly Bushman GS, Architecture
Narges Anzali ’28
Chris Stone GS ’02, Near Eastern Studies
Masha Musthafa ’25
Zahid Chaudhary, Associate Professor of English
Yahya Habib ’26
Nicholas Urbati ’25
Ariel Munczek Edelman GS, School of Public and International Affairs
Brandon Matthew Gauthier ’25
Connie Gong ’25
Katie Rohrbaugh ’24
Alliyah Gregory ’25
Gabby Styris ’28
Leila Granier ’26
Carter Lang ’27
Collin Guedel ’26
Alex Chauncey-Heine ’24
Blue Carlsson ’25
Kyrah Potter ’25
Georgia Martin ’27
Lucy Shea ’27
Rowan Johnson ’27
Jacob Jackson ’26
Lisa Clemans-Cope ’94
Christian Bischoff, GS, English
Matthew Mariman, Library Collections Specialist V, Princeton University Library
Sam Yamashita ’26
Sofia Menemenlis GS, Atmospheric and Oceanic Studies
Ana Sanchez-Martinez ’26
Pyo Tarapi ’28
Dana Benavides ’28
Yousuf Abdelfatah GS, Politics
Thomas Verrill ’25
Haley Choueiri ’25
Adham Ibrahim ’27
Salil Sharma, Postdoctoral Research Associate, Politics
Sophia Vernon ’27
Zoe Daly ’28
Callisto Lim ’28
Irene Kim ’28
Andrew Duke ’25
Angela Brown GS, Art and Archaeology
Noah Barkan ’28
Zachariah Sippy ’23
Ryan Oet GS, Computer Science
Jack Toubes ’25
Christian Salazar ’25
Salma Alhsni ’28
Yushra Guffer ’26
Valerie Neske ’25
Gyan Prakash, Dayton-Stockton Professor of History
Anha Khan ’26
Abigail Leibowitz ’26
Alex Norbrook ’26
Pria G. Jackson GS, Classics
Rachael Schnurr GS, History
Abdullah Rizvi ’27
Matt Heinle GS, Geosciences
Fatima Diallo ’25
Pedro Espino, Research Software Engineer II, Geosciences
Qiqi Yang GS, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Angie Rabih ’25
Amina Anowara ’25
Fawzia Afzal-Khan, Visiting Professor of Gender and Sexuality Studies
Tobias Rosen GS, Art and Archaeology
Fay Slakey GS, Comparative Literature
Meredith Martin, Professor of English
Hal Foster ’77, Townsend Martin, Class of 1917, Professor of Art and Archaeology
Lara Harb, Associate Professor of Near Eastern Studies
Eleanor Wright ’28
V. Mitch McEwen, Assistant Professor of Architecture
Molly Greene, Professor of History and Hellenic Studies
Quentin Colón Roosevelt ’27
Chaya Holch ’23
Nipuna Ginige ’26
Poorvi Bellur GS, History
Elena Milliken ’26
Aron Wander ’15
Tehseen Thaver, Assistant Professor of Religion
Khari Franklin ’24
Luz Victoria Simon Jasso ’24
Theodore Gross ’24
Victoria Koretsky ’26
Maya Rosen ’17
Lucy Carlin ’28
Cassie Eng ’25
Claire Nuchtern ’15
Ardon Shorr, Lecturer in the Princeton Writing Program
Kaleb Boyd ’24
Ibrahim Bata ’26
Nadine Lombardo-Han GS ’22, School of Public and International Affairs
April Alliston, Professor of Comparative Literature
Daniel Garber, A. Watson Armour III University Professor of Philosophy
Noura Shoukfeh ’25
Jabari Lawrence GS, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Wilson Conn ’25
Raghav Pradhan ’28
Nate Howard ’25
Sara Ryave ’24
Michelle Lerner ’93
Kristin Nagy ’27
Jessica Ng, Postdoctoral Research Associate, High Meadows Environmental Institute
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.In baseball, it has long been said that a team’s performance in one-run games is based just as much on luck as on skill. By that standard, Princeton baseball (7–22 overall, 4–5 Ivy League) was quite unlucky this weekend.
Facing the Penn Quakers (13–12, 7–2) in an away series in Philadelphia, the Tigers were swept in an excruciatingly close fashion. No game was decided by more than two runs, and Penn only scored four more runs than Princeton across the whole series. Going 0–3 with a negative-four run differential is particularly brutal.
“Losing close games is difficult of course,” Head Coach Scott Bradley told The Daily Princetonian. “Our lack of depth hurts because we just don’t have many options when it comes to pinch hitters and pinch runners.”
In the first game of Friday’s doubleheader, the Tigers sent senior pitcher Andrew D’Alessio out to the mound. After a rough out-of conference slate, D’Alessio has shined during Ivy play, with a pair of quality starts in his first two games. His positive performance continued on Friday, surrendering just one run across five strong innings of work.
“I didn’t have my best stuff this week but I was able to make some big pitches and manage the game,” D’Alessio told the ‘Prince.’ “I had my sinker working well so I was able to rely on that to induce some weak contact and early outs when I needed them.”
On the other side of the ball, the bats were stymied by Penn’s Noah Millikan. The offense went dormant, mustering just three hits against Millikan and Penn’s bullpen across the game. The Tigers only run came when junior second baseman Jake Koonin smashed a home run to center field in the top of the first.
T1 | Princeton 1, Penn 0 Good morning @JakeKoonin24 🫡📺ESPN+ pic.twitter.com/BNTVSILHrZ
After tying the game off D’Alessio in the fourth, the Quakers went ahead for good in the seventh on a double off junior Tiger reliever Justin Kim. Kim limited the damage, but the 2–1 lead was enough for Penn to secure the win.
In the second game of Friday’s doubleheader, first-year utility Nick Shenefelt took the mound for the Tigers. Shenefelt plays the field most days, but also doubles as a pitcher who can go multiple innings per outing.
His start on Friday was somewhat rocky, giving up two earned runs (of his three total) over two-plus innings of work. In between Shenefelt’s second and third innings, Princeton’s lineup gave the fans a rare treat.
In the top of the third inning, Jake Koonin led off. Much like in the first half of the doubleheader, Koonin hunted a fastball and got one right down the pipe. He responded by hitting a no-doubt home run that cleared the left-center field wall with room to spare. Knowing he got all of it, Koonin walked out of the box and down the first-base line, admiring the ball.
T3 | Princeton 1, Penn 1 READY FOR TAKEOFF💥@JakeKoonin24 📺ESPN+ pic.twitter.com/BgaxZWq6Pf
“[Both home runs] were pretty similar in terms of my approach, just hunting first-pitch fastballs,” Koonin told the ‘Prince.’ “I saw a pitch I liked and wanted to damage early on in the at bat and it just so happened to work out twice this weekend.”
Not to be outdone, junior catcher Jake Bold stepped up next and tried to outdo his teammate, both in the length of the home run and the length of time spent watching it. In the blink of an eye, the Tigers went back-to-back on two huge plays.
T3 | Princeton 2, Penn 1 Attack of the Jakes‼️@JakeBold2📺ESPN+ pic.twitter.com/c2Prlj34tO
“We hadn’t done that in our career so it was definitely a cool moment and it changed the momentum of the game,” said Koonin of the back-to-back jacks. “Hopefully we can do it a couple more times in our career.”
Unfortunately, the good times didn’t last for the Tigers. Shenefelt’s troubles started in the next inning, and sophomore reliever Elliott Eaton was unable to bail him out. Penn led 7–3 by the fifth inning, and a late Tiger rally in the eighth inning wasn’t enough to flip the lead. The last three Tiger batters struck out in the ninth, and the game ended 7–5.
In Saturday’s game, the Tigers had their best chance to win. Though first-year pitcher Liam Kinneen coughed up four runs in five innings, the Tigers led into the ninth inning thanks to a solid offensive performance. Up 6–4 in the sixth, the coaching staff pulled Kineen for senior pitcher Jacob Faulkner. Faulkner, initially presumed to be unavailable, was able to pitch well for his first three innings of work.
“Jacob Faulkner was sick all week and we were not sure if he was going to pitch at all,” Bradley told the ‘Prince.’ “Four innings was a little more than we wanted him to pitch on Saturday so he should be stronger this week.”
In the bottom of the ninth inning, Faulkner ran into trouble early, surrendering back-to-back doubles, bringing the score to 6–5 with the winning runner in scoring position. The next batter singled, tying the game at six apiece.
Extra innings were not kind to the Tigers, who didn’t record a hit in the three innings of play and struck out in order in the 12th.
In the bottom of the 12th inning, Penn loaded the bases off Justin Kim before driving home the walk-off run on a single to right field.
In a weekend filled with so many chances for the Tigers, they went home empty-handed.
“The message to the team was that little things matter in close games,” Bradley told the ‘Prince’ after the series. “[We] need to stay together and only worry about our games.”
Next weekend, the Tigers are shipping up to Boston for a three-game set with the Harvard Crimson (4–20, 2–7 Ivy). Now fifth in the Ivies, Princeton will need to beat up on the Crimson in order to make the tournament in May.
Joe Uglialoro is an assistant Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.With the March Madness Tournament finally coming to an end, the Sports section at The Daily Princetonian decided to look back at their predictions ahead of the tournament and see how they fared. In this special edition of Staff Picks, our Sports editors provide their brackets and reviews of their predictions.
Men’s (1060) and Women’s (960) Brackets – Alex Beverton-Smith, Head Sports Editor
It wasn’t a good year for me. My main highlight was getting the winner correct for the second year running, and that was about it. Particularly stinging was my Southern region, with absolutely nothing correct from the Round of 32 onwards. In a year where there were so few upsets, I predicted upsets the whole way and certainly paid for it.
I also had a lot of faith in Alabama and was thrilled with their record-breaking game against BYU in the Sweet Sixteen; unfortunately, however, Duke proved too much for them. My pick sending them out in the Sweet Sixteen also proved wrong. Houston proved to be formidable, as well, and I loved the way they played throughout the tournament. If I watched them more in the season, I probably would have had them in the championship regardless.
My Achilles’ heel this year was UConn. In an (admittedly) rushed bracket, the mighty Huskies proved to be my downfall with my huge upset prediction — for them to go out in the Sweet Sixteen to Iowa State — failing on many accounts. There were a couple of positives for me this year: I had a 50 percent record in the Final Four and a decent first-round rate, but not much beyond that. I’m definitely excited for the comeback next year.
Women’s (1200) Bracket – Doug Schwartz, Associate Sports Editor
I aced the finals matchup for my bracket, but ultimately went with South Carolina over UConn. Betting against Paige Bueckers and Geno Auriemma was definitely a mistake, but South Carolina’s dominance the past couple of years was enough to bait me into picking the Gamecocks.
Outside of that, I was really looking forward to seeing JuJu Watkins make a deep run, but after she tore her ACL, my bracket got a bit messed up. Overall, my women’s bracket was more accurate than my men’s bracket, but neither was that great.
Women’s (1670) Bracket – Lily Pampolina, Associate Sports Editor
From the get-go, I was bleeding blue and white for the Huskies, picking UConn to go all the way for the women’s tournament. I was so excited to see Kaitlyn Chen ’24 show the rest of the nation what we Princeton fans have known for years: She’s an electric playmaker with an incredible on-court vision.
In general, my women’s bracket was pretty successful — correctly predicting three of the Final Four teams, as well as the championship matchup and winner. Predicting very few upsets paid off in most regards, but when I chose Harvard over Michigan State, I was hoping to see an Ivy League make a strong run in the tournament.
Women’s (1070) Bracket – Matthew Yi, Assistant Sports Editor
This year, I rode with the juggernaut: South Carolina. Fresh off a dominant SEC championship and led by the legendary Dawn Staley, picking the Gamecocks to win it all felt like the safest and smartest choice on the board.
The only team I truly saw as a threat was UConn. But I believed JuJu Watkins and USC would stand in their way of title number 12. Unfortunately, Watkins’ heartbreaking ACL injury changed everything — USC just didn’t look the same after that.
I mostly played it safe, sticking with chalk across the board, though I did take a flyer on a George Mason team I liked. That didn’t exactly pan out. On the brighter side, I nailed both of the 10-over-7 upsets, which helped balance things out.
I got a little bold with Michigan, pushing them all the way to the Final Four, which I soon saw was a bad decision. I also picked Texas to fall to Ohio State, but the Longhorns had other plans and kept rolling.
In the end, I hit on three of the Final Four teams — not bad at all. And while I doubted UConn in the final, I should’ve known better. Future first-round pick Paige Bueckers was locked in, and the Tigers’ very own Kaitlyn Chen ’24 played like a star.
It may not have been the perfect bracket, but the Final Four was electric. It was a thrilling way to close out the season.
Men’s (1400) Bracket – Joe Uglialoro, Assistant Sports Editor
I knew this year would be chalky, but I just couldn’t bring myself to pick all four one seeds in the final four. Once I decided I needed a lower seed, I had to knock off one top seed. Houston was the only one I saw as even slightly vulnerable, so I took Clemson over them in the Sweet 16. In the end, I was right on most of the chalk and my Florida championship choice, but I sure wish I had my Houston pick back.
Men’s (840) Bracket – Bryant Figueroa, Assistant Sports Editor
I thought Clemson was going to go far because of really strong performances that showed heart this season, like their win against Duke. I also think Duke is pretty self-explanatory, given they were a big favorite with their NBA draft-caliber roster. I also thought St. John’s would go far with the Big East player of the year.
Honestly, I was not ready for so much madness. It was the first time I ever made a bracket, but it was fun and got me more interested in following college basketball overall.
Alex Beverton-Smith is a head Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Doug Schwartz is an associate Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Lily Pampolina is an associate Sports editor and a staff Audience creator for the ‘Prince.’
Matthew Yi is an assistant Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Joe Uglialoro is an assistant Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Bryant Figueroa is an assistant Sports editor and a staff Audience creator for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.
Several academic departments have distributed emails warning community members about visits from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and information on what to do if officers come to campus.A walkout, a fire alarm, and a group singing the Israeli national anthem.
A speaker event with former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett on Monday was interrupted at various points, with approximately 20 protesters walking out of the event, an extended disruption by an individual who does not appear to have an affiliation with Princeton in the middle, a subsequent fire alarm interruption, singing by the event’s attendees at the end, and yelling between protesters and event attendees in the courtyard after.
The off-the-record event, which was hosted by the Center of Jewish Life (CJL) and co-sponsored by the School of Public and International Affairs, the Program in Judaic Studies, Scharf Family Chabad House of Princeton, and the Mamdouha S. Bobst Center for Peace and Justice, was held in McCosh 10. Rabbi Gil Steinlauf ’91, the director of the CJL, moderated the discussion. Approximately 200 students, faculty, and other community members were in attendance.
Outside the building, about 200 pro-Palestine protesters chanted, screamed and banged on drums in a display of their dissatisfaction at the decision to host the former Israeli prime minister. The chants of protestors outside were audible inside the lecture hall throughout the talk, and reached as far as Firestone Library and the Architecture Building.
Steinlauf welcomed former Prime Minister of Israel Naftali Bennett to the stage shortly after 7:30 p.m. Before declaring that the event was off-the-record, Steinlauf briefly read through Princeton’s regulations on free speech and warned that disrupters would be removed from the event and may face sanctions.
After 20 minutes, about 20 demonstrators stood up and began chanting “Naftali Bennett, you can’t hide, we charge you with genocide.” They promptly walked out of the room to join the protest outside, followed out of the lecture hall by a free speech coordinator, a University staff member charged with enforcing regulations around protests. Outside, they were greeted with cheers from the demonstrators gathered in the courtyard.
A few minutes after, Sayel Kayed, a man sitting near the front, stood and began shouting at Bennett, quoting civilian death tolls in Gaza: “15,000 children killed, what do you say to that?” Kayed does not appear to have any connection to Princeton, and posted about the disruption on his Instagram.
Kayed — accompanied by a second individual videoing the disruption — continued shouting at Bennett for two minutes before he walked out, followed by Public Safety (PSafe) officers, a free speech coordinator, and Dean Jarrett Fisher, who often handles free speech-related events. Much of the audience applauded as Bennett delivered a rebuttal to Kayed.
“Instead of whining for the past 80 years and building your own future, you have focused on killing the Jews. It’s time the Palestinians stopped whining,” Bennett said, according to a video of the exchange posted on social media.
Alexandra Orbuch ’25, who was in attendance, expressed frustration that free speech facilitators had not intervened quickly enough in the incident. “They informed him that he was violating policy, but again, didn’t really lay a hand on him, didn’t do anything, and then escorted him out after he had disrupted the event for quite a while,” she told the ‘Prince.’
At 8:06 p.m., the fire alarm went off in McCosh and Dickinson Halls. Students and community members looked around in confusion before turning their attention to PSafe officers in the back of the hall for guidance. Minutes of confusion passed before it became clear that event attendees would not be evacuated from the building.
The University was unable to provide comment on the circumstances of the fire alarm before publication, although some attendees speculated it had been pulled by a protester.
Rabbi Eitan Webb then began singing “Kol Ha’olam Kulo Gesher Tzar Me’od” (The whole world is a very narrow bridge) and was joined by many of the event’s attendees, many of whom stood up from their seats and gathered around the stage. After the fire alarm was shut off at 8:17 p.m., attendees then sung Hatikvah — the national anthem of Israel — before the event concluded.
Steinlauf reacted to the disruptions that took place in a written statement to the ‘Prince,’ reiterating the Center for Jewish Life’s commitment to open dialogue and civil discourse in the face of differing viewpoints.
“The conversation with Prime Minister Bennett proceeded meaningfully, and the final disruption was met not with chaos, but with spontaneous singing, dancing, and a sense of unity in the room,” he wrote.
Also in attendance was Judah Guggenheim ’25, who led the opposition to last fall’s Undergraduate Student Government (USG) referendum calling for the University to divest from companies involved in weapons manufacturing. He provided The Daily Princetonian with a written statement of his reaction to the disruption.
“It saddens me that the disrupters showed no sense of nuance. They shouted and pulled the fire alarm rather than listening to [Bennett] be asked and respond to difficult questions,” he wrote.
Other attendees also speculated that a protester had intentionally pulled the fire alarm.
Maddy Denker ’27, a member of J Street U, expressed disappointment over what she characterized as Bennett’s misappropriation of Jewish liturgy. “The statements made by Bennett do not represent the beliefs of all Jewish students and they do not represent J Street U’s pro-peace mission,” she wrote. About five J Street U members donned anti-occupation t-shirts and brought signage to the event.
PSafe presence in the area surrounding McCosh hall was notable, with officers guarding every entrance of McCosh and Dickinson Halls and additional officers stationed throughout the area around the event. Two fences spanning the length of McCosh courtyard were set up with a few feet between then, creating a “buffer zone” between the north side of McCosh courtyard and McCosh 10.
After rallying at Nassau Hall around 7 p.m., the protesters marched across campus to the location of the event. Positioning themselves facing a large window that looks into McCosh 10, protesters chanted continuously from 7:10 through the end of the event. Among their chants were cries of “shame,” directed at event attendees. At points during the event, a protester directed a bright flashlight into the window of McCosh 10.
The protest promotion highlighted a 2013 quote from Bennett that “I already killed lots of Arabs in my life, and there is absolutely no problem with that,” a comment a Bennett spokesperson said at the time was misinterpreted. Bennett, a right-wing figure in Israel, recently announced his return to politics.
When attendees left the event, the protesters again broke out into calls of “shame.”
Around 20 people coming out of the event then gathered along the McCosh 10 side of the buffer zone fence, and some protesters and attendees got into verbal confrontations, with individuals on both sides of the fence hurling charged insults and accusations. The environment was notably more tense than previous protests, with arguments between protesters and attendees lasting for over 30 minutes following the event.
A few protesters breached the fence and entered the buffer zone, prompting security personnel and PSafe officers to instruct the protesters to back up. When protesters did not comply, one officer entered into the crowd and pushed them back. That officer was then pulled back by another after the crowd erupted in angry shouts. Protesters remained in the buffer zone for some time before moving back behind the fence.
The University was unable to provide comment on the circumstances of the PSafe incident before publication.
While many of the protesters were students and community members, some were from outside groups. Several members of Neturei Karta International, an anti-zionist Haredi Jewish organization, marched alongside protesters with signs decrying the ongoing conflict in Gaza. Rabbi Dovid Feldman, part of Neturei Karta, spoke with the ‘Prince’ to explain why they were there.
“If we truly want to see a better future, we must address the root cause. We have to address the occupation. We have to stop the occupation in its entirety, for the sake of the oppressed Palestinian people who deserve freedom, and for the sake of the Jewish people who deserve safety and security, all of us deserve a better future,” he said.
Also in attendance was Mahmoud Desouky, who spoke over the megaphone. Desouky is a graduate from Rutgers University and is running for N.J. State Assembly in the 16th District, which he discussed in his speech to the crowd.
“This is the time for change,” Desouky said.
The protest dissipated around 9 p.m., around half an hour after the event ended.
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Pensacola, Fla. and typically covers community activism, the state of higher education, and construction and architecture.
Devon Rudolph is an associate News editor and staff Sports writer for the ‘Prince.’ She is from northern Virginia and typically covers student life and USG.
Kian Petlin is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The University is investigating the disruption of a speaker event on Monday with former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 wrote to The Daily Princetonian on Tuesday. Eisgruber also said that he had personally apologized to Bennett and said he was “appalled at reports of antisemitic language” outside the event.
Eisgruber’s statement followed a letter written by Danielle Shapiro ’25 and Maximillian Meyer ’27, the respective presidents of pro-Israel student groups B’Artzeinu Princeton and Princeton Tigers for Israel. The letter accused protesters of antisemitism, asking Eisgruber to implement a campus-wide mask ban and dissolve Princeton’s chapter of Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP). The letter also called on Eisgruber to issue a public apology to Bennett and initiate disciplinary action against the protesters.
The event with Bennett was initially disrupted by 20 demonstrators shouting “Naftali Bennett, you can’t hide, we charge you with genocide” before walking out of the lecture hall the event was being held in. Another protester disrupted the event several minutes later, yelling at Bennett and refusing to leave for several minutes before being walked out by Public Safety officers and free speech coordinators. The event was further derailed when the fire alarm went off, an action that some have attributed to protesters. Attendees then began singing, including the Israeli national anthem.
Outside, over 200 protesters chanted in McCosh courtyard throughout the duration of the event. As people from the talk spilled into the courtyard, interactions between protesters and event attendees became tense, with people on both sides of the fence shouting at each other.
Despite the presence of protesters at the event, Rabbi Gil Steinlauf ’91, the executive director of the Center for Jewish Life (CJL), highlighted the perceived success of the event in a written statement to the CJL community on Tuesday.
“Those who tried to silence us could not succeed,” he wrote. “Their efforts to disrupt the event instead brought forth something even stronger: a joyful, defiant affirmation of Jewish life and identity.”
The event was a rare example of a speaker being shouted down at Princeton. It comes a week after the Trump administration suspended several dozen grants to the University, citing a pending investigation into antisemitism on campus from last April.
The letter from Meyer and Shapiro describes a number of alleged remarks at the protests as antisemitic, including “go back to Europe,” “you’re all fucking inbred,” and “inbred swine.” The letter also claimed that a protester used an upside-down triangle symbol, which has been used by Hamas’s military wing to identify Israeli targets.
SJP did not respond to multiple requests for comment. In a statement sent to student listservs on Monday afternoon, it decried the University’s decision to host Bennett and wrote that “many were seen dancing and laughing to the protestors’ chants.”
A post on Meyer’s X account appears to show a single protester repeatedly yelling “go back to Europe” to Jewish students on the other side of the fence. Another post captured a protester making an upside-down triangle with their hands. The Daily Princetonian was unable to verify the validity of the other two claims in the letter.
Antisemitic intimidation was on full display at Princeton.Protesters flashed the Hamas triangle at Jewish students outside of Bennett’s talk — and one masked figure evaded an attempted detainment by ditching his frightening face covering.This isn’t activism. It’s hate. pic.twitter.com/xiVQC8xGCG
“Such behavior is reprehensible and intolerable. The University is investigating and will pursue disciplinary measures as appropriate, to the extent any members of the Princeton University community are implicated,” Eisgruber wrote in his statement.
He added that the University was already “taking action” against one protester who was not a University affiliate.
Eisgruber also issued an apology to Bennett.
“Prime Minister Bennett, like all speakers on our campus, had every right to be heard without disruption and to be treated with dignity. I have expressed my regrets personally to Mr. Bennett and thanked him for visiting our campus,” he wrote.
“While we appreciate President Eisgruber’s apology to PM Bennett, condemnation of antisemitism, and commitment to open an investigation, his statement is ultimately a band-aid over years of failed University policies and unwillingness to enforce existing rules. If free speech truly remains Princeton’s cornerstone, punishments for students who violated it last night must clearly reflect the gravity of that breach,” Shapiro wrote to the ‘Prince.’ Similar thoughts were shared by Shapiro in a piece published late Tuesday night in The Free Press.
Calls to ban masks, included in the letter from Meyer and Shapiro, have been a particular flash point between the Trump administration and universities. Columbia University recently banned face coverings for the purpose of obscuring identities as part of its efforts to comply with demands from the government following significant cuts to its federal funding. Additionally, the Trump administration demanded last week that Harvard also ban masks as a condition to avoid losing federal funding.
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Pensacola, Fla. and typically covers community activism, the state of higher education, and construction and architecture.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.“This is a big deal for me, to walk in a room and see my work,” said Sameer Khan h21, with his arms crossed in a soft gray quarter-zip, scanning the walls of Campus Club, the home of many of his photographs.
At Princeton, Khan can usually be found in the corners of a room with a camera, snapping pictures of new administrators around campus greenery or photographing campus events while joking with students. He currently works as a contracted photographer for many events run by the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students (ODUS) at Princeton, and he is the owner and founder of his photography company, Fotobuddy. Khan’s photos hang in Prospect House, Nassau Hall, and Campus Club.
A visible and invisible figure on campus, Khan and his camera have shaped some of the most integral parts of Princeton life.
Khan never wanted to be a photographer. It wasn’t until he joined The Daily Targum, Rutgers’ student newspaper, that he started taking photos. According to him, he only attended the first meeting because a friend didn’t want to go alone. Only a sophomore in college, Khan was asked to photograph an event without any prior experience.
“I show up, [and] they give me a camera. They say, ‘whatever you get is gonna be better than not having a photo,’” Khan recalled. “And I took a great shot.”
Khan’s editor was impressed. “You can teach a lot about photography,” they said, according to Khan, “but you can’t teach somebody composition — not the way that you’re seeing images.” That was the catalyst. From there, he became a photographer at the Targum, and occasionally wrote feature stories as well.
After graduation, Khan went into the corporate world, but tried to continue pursuing his passion for photography on the side. After a year, he started working with his former Rutgers editor on smaller political campaigns. In 2002, he finally had his “big break.”
Princeton’s School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA), at the time referred to as the Woodrow Wilson School of Public Policy, needed a photographer for an event. After the original photographer from Rutgers could no longer attend, they recommended Khan for the job.
“I show up,” said Khan. “[And] it’s Henry Kissinger.” Not what he expected, he noted.
The encounter was a turning point. Impressed by Khan’s work, SPIA invited him back. For the first few years with SPIA as his client, Khan photographed several of the department’s afternoon lectures.
“[I get] my first corporate client, and it’s Princeton University,” said Khan. “It was like [I had] bragging rights.”
In 2005, Khan convinced SPIA to let him photograph events for its 75th anniversary. “They could hire somebody local and take a chance, or spend a little bit more and hire me and get guaranteed results.”
In 2012, Khan started to photograph department and program events, but Princeton remained a small part of his business. However, in 2017, Khan got a chance to photograph an event hosted by the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students (ODUS), which would go on to become his biggest client at Princeton.
That was when Tom Dunne, former Deputy Dean for ODUS at Princeton and current Dean of Students at Harvard, caught wind of him.
“I remember distinctly looking at the images he delivered for that [ODUS] event, and he had some really amazing pictures in the balcony area of Richardson,” noted Dunne, a fellow photography enthusiast. “And I know how hard it is to shoot photos in that space.”
Once Dunne found out that Khan was a contracted photographer for the public policy school, and not part of the department, they began working together.
“Initially, it started out [that] we would conceptualize an event, and we’d have him come and cover it.” said Dunne. “But with his rapport and the way that he interacted with students, Sameer became a co-creator of some events.”
For example, the first day of classes photo with the “FDOC” banner was created with Khan’s contribution in mind. Today, it is a highly coveted photograph for a student at Princeton.
“He was more than just a contracted photographer,” said Dunne. “He, in many cases, became someone who was really closely working with our office and students in developing programs.”
Khan also became involved in the thesis photo, a longstanding Princeton tradition, helping to provide photos for students that may not have the funds to hire a photographer.
Khan has also influenced the very location of photos taken around campus. Today, many administrative portraits and student portraits are taken outside in the greenery of Princeton’s campus. Unbeknownst to many, it was Khan’s dislike of the “cold” studio setup that began this trend that now is prevalent in many a student and administrator portrait.
The COVID-19 pandemic, however, was a moment where Khan and Dunne’s collaborative efforts became concentrated on helping students connect to campus remotely.
Dunne and Khan worked together on the “Princeton is Wherever You Are” project, a collaboration between ODUS, the Class of 2021, and Khan.
“[The pandemic] was really challenging… especially at a place that I think has such a particular type of physical resonance,” said Dunne.
Khan had initially ideated the project, suggesting that he would photograph the students remotely, guiding their friends and roommates to take their photographs. After, the photo would be edited and placed somewhere in Princeton that was important to them.
Morgan Smith ’21 was one of the students who participated in the “Princeton is Wherever You Are” project.
“As someone who graduated in the Class of 2021, there’s often times where I feel like I was only at Princeton for three and a half years because of the COVID-2019 pandemic,” she noted.
“[Because of Khan’s work], I’m able to say four years, because it didn’t matter that we weren’t on campus anymore,” said Smith, recalling how Khan “coached” her sister to take Smith’s photo for the “Princeton is Wherever You Are” project.
“He really came through for us,” said Smith, “Especially when you think of photos as memorializing people in a place at a certain time. His ability to transcend that, I’ll always admire him for that.”
Khan’s impact on students reaches far and wide, and one of his favorite aspects of Princeton to photograph is student life.
“Everybody that goes through here is going to be something phenomenal one day,” he said. “All of you are folks that will change the world, and that’s kind of cool to see you in your developing stages.”
“He’s … generous with his time,” said Stephen Padlo ’25, who currently serves as the Treasurer for the Class of 2025. Padlo noted, along with Khan’s sense of humor, how “he’ll work overtime just because he loves his job and loves us.”
“[Sameer] captures the smiles outside of the bad days,” said D’Schon Simmons ’27, who serves as the president of the Class of 2027. “He serves as somebody who captures the moments that we can sometimes take for granted.”
“He documents student life like no other person on this campus does,” added Padlo, referencing the ODUS SmugMug page, where photos from many ODUS events are posted.
Khan said he envisions his relationships with students at Princeton in a similar light to his bond with his daughter, who is about to leave for college: Although they graduate and leave campus, they’re not really gone.
“When these students leave after four years, I’m gonna see them at Reunions,” he said. “That’s my hope.”
Khan also refers to his honorary membership  in the Class of 2021 as “one of the greatest things that’s ever happened to me.”
“My dad always would instill [in me] … ‘listen, it doesn’t matter how much money somebody pays you, but if they give you that title, they value you, because then everybody knows what you’ve earned.’”
“I felt like this was one way of being recognized as part of the campus community,” he noted. “I hang that plaque with pride in my house right next to the most expensive painting we have. Because to me, that has more value.”
This show of acceptance and recognition from the Class of 2021 helped Khan realize his effect on the Princeton community.
Smith was also a co-chair of the Class of 2021’s Class Day. “When I think of who an honorary class member should be,” said Smith, “It should be someone like him who has been there every step of the way.”
Especially because Khan played such a large role in creating the 2021 virtual Class Day, “getting to honor the person who helped to make that all happen ... it just made so much sense,” Smith said.
“I’ve realized that I’ve actually had a positive impact on people,” said Khan, “I never thought that way, and I think most photographers don’t think that way because we’re never recognized.”
Through his photography, Khan has also had the chance to connect with high-level Princeton administrators, share his craft, and build relationships. Even in rooms with actors, administrators, professors, and students alike, Khan’s approach remains similar.
Khan recalled the way in which a dean at the University summed his approach to photography. “When you approach a subject, you approach them on a very personal level, so they’re comfortable with you.” According to Khan, that skill is his strength.
Khan recalls taking this approach during his first of many sessions photographing President Christopher Eisgruber ’83.
“I asked him to sit on my case, and he looked at me, and I said, ‘It’s okay. I’ve had presidents of countries sit on this case. I’ve photographed a lot of famous people, but I’ve never been this nervous for a photo shoot.’ And he just chuckled and that was it. He was warm,” Khan recalled.
Eisgruber commented in writing to the ‘Prince’ on his relationship with Khan. “I trust him,” he wrote, “and I’ve learned to do whatever he says — whether he’s telling me to smile more, turn slightly to the right, or adjust my jacket pocket.”
“He is creative, he pays attention to every detail, and his sense of humor makes him a pleasure to work with,” Eisgruber wrote.
Having taken photos of presidents, world leaders, professors, students, and administration alike, Khan doesn’t usually get nervous.
“[But] when I don’t have my camera, I’m the complete opposite,” he noted. “If I have a camera, I’ll go up to anybody, and it doesn’t matter who you are: president, king, celebrity … When I don’t have a camera … I’m the guy standing by the punch bowl by myself,” he said.
But Khan, behind the camera, is everywhere at Princeton. “There’s so many great Princeton events where you look around, [you think], ‘I love this place,’” added Dunne. “And there’s Sameer in the corner photographing it.”
“One of the things that I’ve realized in the last few years is that … I’ve impacted the direction of photography at some of these places, on how photographs are valued,” said Khan. According to him, Nassau Hall only recently began hanging photographs in its hallways alongside the artwork.
Now, according to Khan, the second floor of Nassau Hall is filled with photos he has taken of conferences at Princeton.
“I think there’s a whole new level of appreciation for event photography and portrait photography, where it doesn’t have to be somebody famous, or taken by somebody famous, and I like that,” said Khan. “I like that direction.”
As a photographer who now passes by his work in the many hallowed halls at Princeton, Khan will always stop and say: “I took that photo.”
Mira Eashwaran is an associate Features editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Within the Orange Bubble, one color stands out for Kaden Knight ’28, who dresses exclusively in shades of purple. The Daily Princetonian sat down with “The Purple Guy” to find out why.
Daily Princetonian: Why do you wear purple?
Kaden Knight: I just like the color. It reminds me of magic and creativity. It was sometime in kindergarten when I decided I liked the color, so I wore it. I kept liking the color, so I just got more purple clothes.
By third grade, I basically had all purple clothes. I had to take a step back, look at myself and decide I like this, let’s continue doing this.
DP: So since third grade you’ve been wearing purple every single day?
KK: Yeah actually, I remember the moment. It was third grade, doing a theater production of Shakespeare’s As You Like It. And for the theater production, everybody had to wear stage black ... I didn’t have a proper black shirt, so instead, I wore this black shirt that was a Minecraft periodic table of elements. I was looking at myself, and I realized, “Hey, this shirt still has purple from the obsidian’s purple flakes.” So [since] I’m still wearing purple even though I’m supposed to be wearing stage black, I should, from this day, onwards, continue to just wear at least one bit of purple in my clothing.
DP: Do you own anything that isn’t purple?
KK: At the start of the year they handed out all those Princeton T-Shirts. I took the white ones. I’m a very lazy person, but once I stop being lazy, I’m gonna go and dye those purple. But right now, they are just shoved in a dresser, two little white shirts. Everything else is purple. Bed sheets are purple. I’ve got my phone cases purple. Probably other stuff is purple, it’s lots of purple. People play a game where they ask me: “Do you have purple this? You have a purple that?”
DP: Do you plan on being purple forever?
KK: I don’t know. I haven’t stopped liking purple yet, so it doesn’t seem to be happening in the future. I wouldn’t mind liking purple forever. Present me has no problems with wearing purple forever. Maybe future me will come to a different decision.
DP: Have you ever found people that do a similar thing?
KK: It hasn’t happened yet. I haven’t found any other purple people. People tell me, “Kaden, did you know that in Seattle there’s a place called The Purple Store where they only sell purple things?” Someday, I want to make a pilgrimage to The Purple Store and meet other purple-obsessed people.
My friends will come tell me, “Oh my goodness, there’s this one guy who wears all purple at Oberlin and he reminds me of you,” or apparently at Stanford there is this child of one of the math professors who wears all purple and goes around Stanford on a unicycle.
I don’t have Fizz, but friends of mine will just be like, “Kaden, you’re on Fizz again.” Somebody took a photo of you and posted it to a bunch of people anonymously. It’s all super sweet. The photo was really funny with the caption “Purple Rain.”
DP: Do you find the posts to be creepy?
KK: I don’t feel like I can really have a problem with it because everybody is being sweet and kind. It does feel a little creepy. But they’re all really nice about it. Everything I have seen, from what people have shown me, is curiosity — well-intentioned and nice.
I’m so ‘train-of-thought-y’ that I have no idea if this interview is going to make any sense to anybody reading it. Hi, people reading this interview! I hope this has some logical coherence to you. Hope you’re enjoying this!
Ark Bunyan is a contributing Data and Features writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Nearly 18 months after its conception, the physical location of the New Jersey AI Hub is almost complete near Route 1.
The AI Hub began as a collaboration between Princeton and the New Jersey Economic Development Association. Microsoft, a leader in AI, and CoreWeave, a Livingston-based startup aiming to deploy AI at scale, joined Princeton and New Jersey as founding partners in January 2025. These four partners will serve to advance the AI Hub’s three pillars: promoting AI research, commercializing and accelerating innovation, and strengthening and scaling AI education.
The AI hub is now looking for its leader. After more than a year and a half, the University and the founders of the AI Hub are currently searching for an executive director.
“There’s such alignment across what all of us want to do with the AI hub that really the Executive Director will come on board … to bring the vision to life,” said Princeton Vice President and Secretary Hilary Parker.
The position opened on Feb. 25. According to Parker, the executive director of the AI Hub will be a University employee who works closely with the governing board of the AI Hub, which will include members from each of those founding organizations.
For Princeton’s part, Provost Jennifer Rexford ’91 noted that many administrators are involved, including Vice Dean for Innovation Craig Arnold, outgoing Dean of Engineering Andrea Goldsmith, and Office of State Affairs Assistant Vice President David Reiner. Senior Strategic AI Hub Project Manager Jeffrey Oakman GS ’03 was “brought on specifically to focus on driving a lot of this work,” Rexford noted.
Hiring of staff will continue once the corporate partners move into the physical space. CoreWeave currently has a team of three people working on this project.
The new hub will be located in West Windsor along Route 1, an eight-minute drive from Nassau Hall. Despite the 40-minute walk from campus, University leaders involved in the project promise that faculty and students will receive benefits as well.
According to Rexford, the AI Hub will allow students and faculty to transfer their ideas to local industries, for example, by providing guidance for ideas that students may not realize could solve problems for “pharma companies or a telecom company.”
Corey Sanders ’04 is CoreWeave Senior Vice President of Strategy and a Visiting Lecturer in the Department of Computer Science. Sanders described plans to launch a set of summer internships at the AI Hub for students. He said that he hopes that the internships will “strengthen the AI education component” and “enable growth and development of the workforce” in the state.
When asked when the internships would begin, Sanders said, “The goal would be as soon as possible.” He continued, “We need to move quickly with the launch of the AI Hub.”
“What we gain to benefit is the tide that lifts all boats,” Sanders said. He explained, “The opportunity to improve the workforce, the opportunity to develop and culture early-stage startups, the opportunity to take research from the top universities of the state and turn them into much more applicable technologies for the next generation of advancement.”
Sanders worked for Microsoft until January 2025. Each partner is focusing on a pillar of the AI hub — research, commercialization and accelerating innovation, education and training.
Mike Egan, Senior Director of TechSpark, a Microsoft program that assists startup ventures aimed at community improvement across the country, explained how the partners will be tackling these pillars.
Egan shared that the first pillar will be aimed at asking, “How do we take local companies, startups, small businesses and others, bring them into the lab, and have them think about AI? What can AI bring their company? How can they become more efficient? How can they integrate with AI?”
The second pillar will be the primary focus of CoreWeave, which Egan said will be aimed at asking, “Can we accelerate new companies, new startups, new businesses?”
The third pillar of the AI Hub will promote “workforce development and skilling (training),” which is something that TechSpark and Microsoft will primarily handle, Egan said.
Egan explained that this pillar is particularly focused on training students in community colleges across New Jersey. “We’ve already had some inroads with the New Jersey Community College Association, so we don’t want to limit it just to Princeton,” Egan said. He also shared that he expects Rutgers University to become a partner in the future. Rutgers currently has an Art and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory housed under their department of computer science and 11 faculty associated with AI.
Egan shared that once the Executive Director is chosen, TechSpark will also be hiring a manager who will help advance the third pillar of the AI Hub: workforce development.
“The TechSpark manager will serve both as a technology kind of liaison to Microsoft and all its resources, but also a real local community manager driving skilling across the state,” Egan said.
New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy has bigger hopes for the AI Hub, hoping that it will revitalize the New Jersey industry standards.
“New Jersey, through thick and thin … largely held on to the big corporate players,” Murphy said. “Where we lost our way, and we lost our way badly, was in the startup community.”
The AI hub is one of 10 Strategic Innovation Centers that the NJEDA has invested money into, hoping to catalyze industry in the Garden state by helping startup companies get off the ground with state-level assistance. According to Murphy, it is cheaper to “birth a new company” rather than try to incentivize companies to come to New Jersey “after they’ve already grown up.”
Microsoft President and University Trustee Brad Smith ’81 shared with the ‘Prince’ his understanding of the AI Hub as constantly evolving and adapting to meet current needs. “This has, in my view, the potential to have a very long and dynamic life,” said Smith. “It [the AI Hub], just like Princeton University, is never finished.”
Smith is also hopeful that the growing startup ecosystem of New Jersey will encourage startups to develop in the state.
According to a Feb. 2 press release from the NJEDA, the founding equity partners will collectively invest “over $72 million to support the long-term success of the AI Hub, including up to $25 million of non-binding commitment from the NJEDA.”
In an interview with ‘Prince,’ Murphy shared that, should other partners decide to invest, the N.J. Government “will match other partners’ financial commitments,” dollar for dollar, up to $25 million.
Though no exact date has been announced, according to Parker, the AI Hub will be up and running “within weeks.” There will be an official ribbon-cutting ceremony to commemorate the completion of the AI Hub’s physical location on Thursday, March 27, at 10 a.m.
“With the space ready, and events ready to plan, I think that there’s going to be a lot of activity that will kick off this Spring and then continue,” Parker said.
Egan shared that future sponsorship and alumni opportunities will arise once the AI Hub is up and running.
He explained, “I could see other sponsorship opportunities, where [other companies] could come in and run their own kind of clinic — their own kind of deep dive in a particular region … other kinds of engagements that they help sponsor with students and faculty at Princeton.”
Luke Grippo is a senior News writer and Features contributor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including Undergraduate Student Government, the Council of the Princeton University Community, and institutional legacy.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On Tuesday, the Municipality of Princeton took formal ownership of the Westminster Choir College campus, a 23-acre property about a 10-minute walk due north of the Engineering Quad.
In a press release, officials confirmed that the town had finalized its $42 million acquisition from Rider University, with the sale approved by Judge Robert Lougy of the New Jersey Superior Court on March 5 and formal recording done with the Mercer County Clerk this week.
Council President Mia Sacks said in the press release that the property would be adapted for public facility needs, which she called “urgent.”
“We look forward to engaging the community over the next 18 months in a multi-faceted planning exercise with robust public engagement and maximum stakeholder input,” she added.
In the press release, Deputy Administrator Deanna Stockton said in the latest release that the municipality has been working closely with Rider University on “a seamless transition,” covering matters such as security, IT, landscaping, and fire systems.
Princeton officials have hired Topology, a New Jersey-based planning firm, to assist with development.
The acquisition comes after more than half a decade of lawsuits, public resistance, and concern over the historic site’s future. Originally gifted to Westminster in 1935 by philanthropist Sophia Strong Taylor for the purpose of training ministers of music, the property has become the subject of legal disputes over whether its religious covenant prohibits transfer to secular entities.
Westminster remained independent until 1991, when severe financial difficulties led to a merger with Rider University. According to court records, the Princeton Theological Seminary declined to assume administrative control, prompting the merger, despite conflicting with Taylor’s original stipulations. As part of the agreement, Rider committed to preserving Westminster’s original programs and mission.
In 2016, facing major financial shortfalls, Rider University announced plans to sell, relocate, or shut down Westminster Choir College. The decision triggered backlash from students, faculty, and alumni, who formed the Westminster Foundation to preserve the college in Princeton.
A 2018 lawsuit filed by the Foundation and faculty members successfully blocked Rider’s attempted sale of the campus to Beijing Kaiwen Education Technology Company. That same year, Princeton Theological Seminary also sued Rider, arguing the 1991 merger agreement required Westminster to remain on its original campus. That case remains unresolved.
The property has remained vacant since 2020, after Rider University’s decision to move the Choir College programs to Rider’s Lawrenceville campus.
Despite the legal resolutions this week, the acquisition is unlikely to bring an end to the legal challenges.
In September, Attorney Bruce Afran, representing the Westminster Foundation and advising Princeton Theological Seminary in related lawsuits, said that “the town will not avoid heavy litigation.”
The announcement comes after public meetings that were held last fall, when town council members approved ordinances to pursue acquisition despite opposition from Westminster faculty, alumni, and preservationists. Critics expressed concern that the site’s musical legacy would be lost and questioned the town’s ability to responsibly manage the facility’s cultural infrastructure.
At the time, longtime Westminster Conservatory teacher Amy Wolf warned that the property’s musical resources should be preserved and feared it might instead be turned into “a 22-acre soccer field.” Other residents questioned the transparency of the acquisition process and called for the formation of a public task force to ensure accountability.
The three nonprofits currently operating on the site — Music Together, Princeton Pro Musica, and the Greater Princeton Youth Orchestra — have had their licenses transferred to the town. The municipality is working to allow the Westminster Conservatory to continue operations on the property.
Princeton Mayor Mark Freda echoed a sense of optimism. “We are pleased that the legal hurdles involving the acquisition of this property have finally been resolved,” he said in the press release. “We are eager to move forward together with the community to come up with the best plan for this site and our residents.”
As public planning efforts are set to begin, it remains to be seen whether the town’s vision will live up to the historic legacy of the Choir college and whether it can withstand the legal battles that ensue.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and education director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Glendale, Calif.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Junior star guard Xaivian Lee's agent announced via ESPN on Friday that he intends to enter the transfer portal. Lee will maintain his college eligibility and also test the National Basketball Association (NBA) draft process once more, doing so less than a year after withdrawing from the 2024 NBA Draft to return for his junior season at Princeton.
“These past three years at Princeton have been the most meaningful of my life,” Lee wrote in a statement posted to his Instagram story. “This place has shaped me as a person and challenged me. It gave me a platform to chase my dreams and now Princeton is a place I know I can always call home.”
Lee enters the portal with a “Do Not Contact” tag, a designation indicating that he is proactively managing his recruitment and does not wish to be approached by programs unless he or his agent initiates contact.
The decision comes after a season in which the Ivy League preseason favorite Tigers fell in the Ivy Madness semifinals and assistant coaches Brett MacConnell and Lawrence Rowley were not retained. MacConnell recruited Lee, who emerged as a standout following his rookie year.
"Xaivian shared his decision to enter the transfer portal," Head Coach Mitch Henderson ’98 wrote to the Daily Princetonian. "He's a tremendous member of this program and we support him in exploring what's best for him as a person, student and basketball player"
In two seasons as a starter, Lee has cemented himself as one of the best players ever to wear the Orange and Black. A two-time unanimous first team All-Ivy selection, this season Lee became the first Tiger to record a triple-double, after an 18 point, 13 rebound, and 10 assist performance against St Joe’s. Lee secured a second triple-double in the Tigers' final game of the regular season against Penn.
Across his sophomore and junior seasons, Lee consistently delivered. In the 2023–24 season, he averaged 17.1 points, 5.7 rebounds, and 3.7 assists per game, becoming one of just five underclassmen nationally to average at least 16 points, five rebounds, and three assists.
He followed that up with an even stronger junior campaign, posting 16.9 points, 6.1 rebounds, and 5.5 assists per game while leading the Ivy League in assist-to-turnover ratio. Lee notched two 30-point games in each of the past two seasons and hit game-winners against Columbia and Dartmouth.
“To my teammates — ya'll know what it is,” Lee wrote. "There's no other group I would've rather gone through the ups and downs with.”
While many expected Lee to declare for the NBA Draft after this season, transferring was thought to be less likely. The latest Bleacher Report mock draft projects him as the 52nd overall pick.
In the modern National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), the high levels of name, image, and likeness (NIL) compensation attracts successful student athletes to stay in college and forgo the pros for a year or two. Lee's decision represents this fundamental change in collegiate sports.
Lee immediately becomes one of the most sought-after players in the transfer portal and is expected to draw interest from high-major programs across the country. Given his recent success, Lee will receive significant NIL interest, with offers likely exceeding seven figures.
Without Lee, the Tigers lose their primary playmaker and leader, and the outlook for next season becomes far less clear. While players like sophomore guard Dalen Davis and junior forward Caden Pierce, a former Ivy League Player of the Year, are expected to take on larger roles, his departure could prompt others to re-evaluate their own futures with the program.
With Lee now in the portal, he is eligible to be contacted by other programs immediately. The spring transfer window closes on May 1, giving him a few weeks to weigh his options before making a decision.
Lee ended his statement by saying, “To the faculty, fans, and community — I wouldn't be much without you. Thanks for giving me the opportunity to represent you, I have nothing but love and gratitude for the school. I hope you continue to follow my story as I willl always do the same."
This story is breaking and will be updated as more details emerge.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and education director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Glendale, Calif.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is an open letter and reflects the authors’ views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
On Monday, the Center for Jewish Life (CJL) is hosting ex-Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett for a conversation on his political career. The event is ticketed, will be held at an off-campus location, and, to our knowledge, was only advertised to the CJL and Chabad listservs. While it is the CJL’s right to host Bennett, we, as Jewish students, disavow and spurn the rhetoric that he has spread across college campuses in the United States, and call on others to join us.
Between 2006 and 2008, Bennett served as Benjamin Netanyahu’s chief of staff, before serving as the head of the Yesha Council, the main political body representing Israeli settlers who live in occupied territory in violation of international law.
A year after becoming prime minister, Bennett dissolved parliament in a move that triggered Netanyahu’s reelection. Since then, Netanyahu has used his administration to oppose a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and –– in the aftermath of the Oct. 7 terror attacks — wage a campaign in Gaza that has killed tens of thousands of Palestinian men, women, and children. While Bennett has conveyed doubts about how the Netanyahu administration is waging that war, he still supports continued fighting above a ceasefire, only leading to more death and destruction.
In and out of office, Bennett has strongly argued against the creation of a Palestinian state, instead suggesting Israeli annexation of Area C in the West Bank — what he refers to as “Judea and Samaria,” biblical terms long associated with a strain of Israeli right-wing politics aiming to further oppress Palestinians and hinder the possibility of Palestinian statehood. He has said that “the most important thing is for Israel to build, build, build,” in reference to illegal West Bank settlements, and that he “will do everything in [his] power to oppose a Palestinian state.”
It is precisely rhetoric like Bennett’s that has increased state and settler violence against Palestinians in the West Bank.
Now, he’s saying that he will not include Arab parties in his government if his party, widely expected to be successful, wins in the October 2026 parliamentary elections. Approximately one-fifth of Israeli citizens are Arab — around two million people.
As progressive Jews, we oppose Naftali Bennett’s long encouragement of West Bank settlement and disregard of Palestinian autonomy. In the strongest possible terms, we reject encroachment on the West Bank that so often involves settler and state-backed violence toward Palestinians. We want to make it extremely clear that — even as the CJL, Chabad of Princeton, and program in Judaic studies cosponsor the upcoming event with Bennett — many Jews at Princeton strongly disagree with Bennett’s actions and statements.
The event is also remarkably closed. Again, to our knowledge, it was only disseminated to the CJL and Chabad listservs. Students must submit questions beforehand. We worry these questions may be filtered and that students may not be able to ask them themselves. Listening from outside of the event will be difficult — Bennett’s past events have been off-the-record, and we expect his Princeton appearance to be the same. Non-ticketed members of the student body will not even know where the event is being held, just that it will take place at an “off-campus location,” that ticketed members will not hear about until 24 hours before the event.
By limiting who attends these events and what topics can be discussed, Bennett avoids difficult but important conversations about his positions that could be started by Jewish and non-Jewish students alike who are not on the CJL or Chabad listserv. The framing of this event limits important discourse on a contentious issue on campus, precisely at a time where the exchange of ideas is so important.
Given the requirement for questions to be submitted beforehand, those who are attending will not be able to respond to what Bennett says over the course of the event and will have no idea of whether their submitted questions will even be asked in the first place.
We also worry that Bennett will use this event at Princeton as campaign material for his anticipated push to return to the Knesset, Israel’s parliament. The CJL’s flyer for the event acknowledges that “while Mr. Bennett has not yet announced his return to politics, he’s generally considered … the leading candidate to be the next Prime Minister of Israel.”
He has also appeared at Columbia and Yale, as well as Harvard — where he joked that if audience members were disruptive during the event, he would “just give them a pager,” referring to the September 2024 Israeli attacks in Lebanon where the Israelis detonated thousands of handheld pagers used by the militant group Hezbollah.
By using these events to talk about his life in business at Harvard or his return to politics here at Princeton, Bennett is drumming up diaspora support to advance his political aims of further subjugating Palestinians. Bennett seems to be starting his campaign trail on the campuses of U.S. colleges and universities. We refuse to be a stomping ground for his racist rhetoric and violent policies: As Jews and University affiliates, we write to say this invitation and endorsement of Bennett is not in our name.
Ultimately, it is important for us — as Jewish people — to stand against Naftali Bennett. We see the structure of this event as limiting free speech and civil discourse surrounding his presence. We don’t expect there to be space for dissent in Bennett’s talk next week, so consider this letter us making our own space: We dissent. We, the undersigned, object to Bennett’s threats of violence against students, history of actions normalizing inequality and violence toward Palestinians, and encouragement of illegal settlements in the West Bank. We urge our fellow Jewish students and other members of our campus community to join us.
Elena Eiss is a first-year from Pittsburgh, Pa., and Assistant Opinion Editor Charlie Yale is a first-year from Omaha, Neb. Both are leaders of the Alliance of Jewish Progressives.
Correction: The version of this open letter circulated for signatures said that the email promoting the lecture was only sent to the CJL listserv. In fact, it was also sent to the Chabad listserv.
Signed,
Emanuelle Sippy ’25
Martin Mastnak ’25
Ben Gelman ’23
Dylan Shapiro ’23
Hannah Gabelnick ’26
Bryce Springfield ’25
Katie Heinzer ’22
Jacob Neis GS, Classics
Mohamed El Hedi Bahri GS ’23, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Dane Lester ’28
Tom Abi Samra GS, Near Eastern Studies
Patrick Jaojoco GS, Architecture
Isaac Barsoum ’28
Aedan Fraley ’27
Max Weiss, Professor of History
Alan Plotz ’25
Jonathan Mandel GS, Art and Archaeology
Johana Lara ’25
Jo Goldman ’25
Sakura Price ’23
Annabelle Luo ’28
Curtis Deutsch, Professor of Geosciences and the High Meadows Environmental Institute
Aminah Aliu ’25
Emer Kilgallon ’25
Laurence Drayton ’26
Jeremy Zullow ’17
Jim LaRegina, Graduate/Undergraduate Administrator, Near Eastern Studies
Adam B. Sanders ’25
Josh Isaacs GS, Geosciences
Rio Baran ’25
Emmett Weisz ’27
Holly Bushman GS, Architecture
Narges Anzali ’28
Chris Stone GS ’02, Near Eastern Studies
Masha Musthafa ’25
Zahid Chaudhary, Associate Professor of English
Yahya Habib ’26
Nicholas Urbati ’25
Ariel Munczek Edelman GS, School of Public and International Affairs
Brandon Matthew Gauthier ’25
Connie Gong ’25
Katie Rohrbaugh ’24
Alliyah Gregory ’25
Gabby Styris ’28
Leila Granier ’26
Carter Lang ’27
Collin Guedel ’26
Alex Chauncey-Heine ’24
Blue Carlsson ’25
Kyrah Potter ’25
Georgia Martin ’27
Lucy Shea ’27
Rowan Johnson ’27
Jacob Jackson ’26
Lisa Clemans-Cope ’94
Christian Bischoff, GS, English
Matthew Mariman, Library Collections Specialist V, Princeton University Library
Sam Yamashita ’26
Sofia Menemenlis GS, Atmospheric and Oceanic Studies
Ana Sanchez-Martinez ’26
Pyo Tarapi ’28
Dana Benavides ’28
Yousuf Abdelfatah GS, Politics
Thomas Verrill ’25
Haley Choueiri ’25
Adham Ibrahim ’27
Salil Sharma, Postdoctoral Research Associate, Politics
Sophia Vernon ’27
Zoe Daly ’28
Callisto Lim ’28
Irene Kim ’28
Andrew Duke ’25
Angela Brown GS, Art and Archaeology
Noah Barkan ’28
Zachariah Sippy ’23
Ryan Oet GS, Computer Science
Jack Toubes ’25
Christian Salazar ’25
Salma Alhsni ’28
Yushra Guffer ’26
Valerie Neske ’25
Gyan Prakash, Dayton-Stockton Professor of History
Anha Khan ’26
Abigail Leibowitz ’26
Alex Norbrook ’26
Pria G. Jackson GS, Classics
Rachael Schnurr GS, History
Abdullah Rizvi ’27
Matt Heinle GS, Geosciences
Fatima Diallo ’25
Pedro Espino, Research Software Engineer II, Geosciences
Qiqi Yang GS, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Angie Rabih ’25
Amina Anowara ’25
Fawzia Afzal-Khan, Visiting Professor of Gender and Sexuality Studies
Tobias Rosen GS, Art and Archaeology
Fay Slakey GS, Comparative Literature
Meredith Martin, Professor of English
Hal Foster ’77, Townsend Martin, Class of 1917, Professor of Art and Archaeology
Lara Harb, Associate Professor of Near Eastern Studies
Eleanor Wright ’28
V. Mitch McEwen, Assistant Professor of Architecture
Molly Greene, Professor of History and Hellenic Studies
Quentin Colón Roosevelt ’27
Chaya Holch ’23
Nipuna Ginige ’26
Poorvi Bellur GS, History
Elena Milliken ’26
Aron Wander ’15
Tehseen Thaver, Assistant Professor of Religion
Khari Franklin ’24
Luz Victoria Simon Jasso ’24
Theodore Gross ’24
Victoria Koretsky ’26
Maya Rosen ’17
Lucy Carlin ’28
Cassie Eng ’25
Claire Nuchtern ’15
Ardon Shorr, Lecturer in the Princeton Writing Program
Kaleb Boyd ’24
Ibrahim Bata ’26
Nadine Lombardo-Han GS ’22, School of Public and International Affairs
April Alliston, Professor of Comparative Literature
Daniel Garber, A. Watson Armour III University Professor of Philosophy
Noura Shoukfeh ’25
Jabari Lawrence GS, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Wilson Conn ’25
Raghav Pradhan ’28
Nate Howard ’25
Sara Ryave ’24
Michelle Lerner ’93
Kristin Nagy ’27
Jessica Ng, Postdoctoral Research Associate, High Meadows Environmental Institute
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.Professor Pietro Frassica has taught in the French and Italian Department since before it was called the French and Italian Department. He joined the University in 1976. In addition to lecturing on the literature of the Italian Renaissance and Italian dramatist Luigi Pirandello, Professor Frassica introduced Food Studies to the curriculum in the 1990s with one of his most popular seminars, The Literature of Gastronomy.
The Daily Princetonian spoke with Professor Frassica to hear more about his perspective on literature and Princeton after all these years.
Daily Princetonian (DP): What initially drew you to teaching and the field of Italian literature?
Pietro Frassica (PF): I always had teaching as one of my priorities, even as a child. Obviously, I had other ideas, like singing, but when I started seriously studying and going to university, I knew my goal was to do research, write, teach, and eventually bring my work to the classroom.
Through literature, you learn a lot about life, even within fiction. You learn how to somehow deal with your emotions, with your way of understanding life, and this is what I like to also bring to the students. It’s important, especially nowadays, to not lose the sense of understanding and exchanging ideas in a free context.
So, for me, I didn’t want to do anything else. I’ve been very happy, and I’m prolonging my teaching as long as I can, as long as I feel healthy and comfortable.
DP: What led you to start teaching at Princeton, and what made you decide to stay?
PF: Before I came to Princeton, I had the choice between Princeton and Berkeley. For an Italian, Princeton is much closer to Italy, which seems silly, but geography was an important factor for me. But also, when I first visited the campus, I fell in love with the place. I really fell in love.
I said, “This is the place I’d like to be, and I’m staying as long as I can,” because I loved the place, the people, the department, the students, and the way it’s structured. I felt very comfortable then, and I feel comfortable now. Of course, I had the opportunity over the years to go somewhere else, but I always said, “Okay, I can come and visit to give a lecture, but I will never leave Princeton.”
I also love to walk into the classroom and see the students. Seeing them asking questions and participating gives me a lot of energy. Even after so many decades, I still feel as if it’s the first time.
DP: How have your experiences here influenced your own work and approach to literary education?
PF: I listen to students a lot. Their reactions are very important to me. Over the years, I have seen a lot of changes in students, so I want to know what aspects of literature or history they are interested in. This makes me very eager to answer to their expectations, because times have changed, and I find it very exciting to see how students perceive literature differently now.
When students come to me and say, “I have an idea, but maybe it’s silly,” I always respond, “No, no, nothing is silly. You speak, I listen, and we can discuss that. You are in the classroom and we talk. You tell me how you feel.” So it’s important for me also to somehow evolve with the time and with the students.
I also bring my research to class, because to make a class lively, you have to bring your own experience and share what you do, how you do it, the kind of methodology you use.
DP: In 1993, started offering a class on literary texts concerned with gastronomy, a novel field at the time. What inspired you to study this unique connection, and how has this relationship between food and literature affected the rest of your interdisciplinary studies?
PF: Teaching this course has been an incredible experience, because the students like the idea of studying fiction. It contains not only descriptions of dinners, but descriptions of lack of food, especially in books that describe war and concentration camps. So food is not only eating, but also a lack of eating, which is very important in our days to consider too.
To talk about the literature of gastronomy, you must necessarily speak about other things like history, politics, anthropology, sociology, biology, and all kinds of disciplines, because food is something you find everywhere. It’s a common denominator for everybody. People also have different traditions, so when you bring that factor into the classroom, it opens up the whole discussion.
The class, ITA 319, is being taught this semester as an interdisciplinary course that explores the depiction of food in Italian literature through anthropological, cultural, and socio-political lenses. Drawing from well-known stories like “Pinocchio,” selections from cookbooks, and the 1972 film “Roma,” the course seeks to understand how food and the action of eating can serve as a commentary on life in Italian society.
DP: Beyond your work at Princeton, you’ve been deeply involved in the community, serving as a trustee for Dorothea’s House, an Italian-American cultural institution. What initially led you to take on this role, and how has it shaped your experience at Princeton?
PF: Dorothea’s House invited me many years ago to be one of their trustees, and I accepted because I felt it was important to give the community something. We always have to be happy for what we get, for what we have, and to give it back. As part of the organization, we organize cultural events. I bring my experience at Princeton to invite people for lectures and concerts, among other things. We also give 10 to 15 scholarships to young people who are residents in Princeton.
Although the University has obviously been a big part of my life, since it’s where I live, Dorothea’s House has also given me a sense of the Princeton community beyond the University. It gives me an incredible sense of accomplishment to help these young, promising people for four years.
DP: If you could give one piece of advice to aspiring Italian majors today, what would it be?
PF: When you are away from your family, you are on your own. So talk to people. Talk to your professors. If you have a problem, rather than feeling isolated, you can talk to your professor. Professors don’t only teach literature, or mathematics, or chemistry. Professors are human beings, and I do think there is always the possibility of communicating on a different level with students. To me, it is very important not to lose the human aspect in any kind of relationship in life.
Angela Li is an assistant Features editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Computer science professor Brian Kernighan GS ’69 left a career in emerging computer science research to pursue his passion for teaching. He shared his perspectives on the evolution of the field of computer science, his interdisciplinary approach to this work, and his advice to aspiring programmers.
Computer Science Professor Brian Kernighan ’69 left a career in emerging computer science research to pursue his passion for teaching. He shared his perspectives on the evolution of the field of computer science, his interdisciplinary approach to this work, and his advice to aspiring programmers.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
This Thursday, the New Jersey AI Hub will mark the completion of its physical location with a ribbon-cutting ceremony. University officials, executives at company partners, and New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy shared with the ‘Prince’ their hopes for the AI Hub and the role it will play for Princeton and the state as a whole.Sébastien Philippe is a Research Scholar with Princeton University’s Program on Science and Global Security. His research focuses on addressing the global security and environmental challenges associated with nuclear arms and emerging technologies. Christine Blumauer, GS ’18, is the executive director of policy for the NJ Department of Labor and Workforce Development. Philippe and Blumauer are married and have two children, Lucie and Constance.
The Daily Princetonian: How old are you?
Lucie: I’m eight.
Constance: I’m three.
DP: What grade are you in?
Lucie: I’m in second.
Constance: I’m in first grade.
Lucie: No, you’re not.
Constance: Pre-K three.
DP: What do you like about the grade you’re in?
Lucie: I like that I learn more in second grade. Learning about biographies. Sojourner Truth won in court to get her son back because he was getting sold … and that was illegal.
Constance: I love playing with my friends.
DP: What’s something you dislike about your grade?
Lucie: That I have to do a lot of homework.
Constance: I don’t know.
DP: What’s your favorite subject in school right now?
Lucie: Writing.
Constance: Writing.
DP: What do you like to do outside of school?
Lucie: I like playing at the playground and playing with my friends. And judo.
DP: How long have you been doing that?
Lucie: For six months. I’m soon going to get my yellow belt.
DP: What do you like about judo?
Lucie: That I like to fight with people, and I don’t get to the principal’s office. (Lucie has never been to the principal’s office and knows that Judo stays in the dojo, her mom clarifies.)
DP: Constance, what about you?
Constance: Playing. And doing instruments! Doing the recorder.
DP: How long have you been playing the recorder?
Constance: A long time.
Lucie: No, no, no, no.
Constance: Yes.
Lucie: No.
Mom: Three days ago.
DP: Well, I hope it’s off to a good start. Do you guys have a favorite book?
Constance: I do. “Pete the Cat”!
Lucie: “Dragon Masters” series.
DP: Favorite movie?
Lucie: “Sing 2.”
Constance: “Sing 3.”
Lucie: There’s no “Sing 3.”
Constance (after a pause): "Thelma the Unicorn."
DP: Do you guys have a dream job?
Lucie: I want to be a surgeon that specializes in the heart. I want to help people get better, and I want them to survive. I want them to keep living; I don’t want them to die.
Constance: I want to fly in the air.
DP: In a plane, or just you?
Constance: Just me. In the clouds!
DP: I notice you guys speak French, have you been speaking [that] your whole life?
Lucie: We weren’t born in France. We were born here, but our parents taught us how to speak even though we were around people speaking English.
DP: Do you think your English is better than your French?
Lucie: Yeah, I think so. I also speak Spanish —
Constance: And me too!
Lucie: — and just a couple words of German.
DP: What do you think is one thing the world needs more of?
Lucie: Trees.
Constance: Clouds.
DP: If you could invent something, what would it be?
Lucie: I would invent a flying car. It would be like an airplane but the size of a car. And the shape of a car, just with wings and more power.
Constance: I want to be a princess.
Lucie: Non, c’est qu’est-ce que tu veux faire. (No, it’s what do you want to do).
Constance: I want to do a toy monster. It would crawl on the floor and fly, and [help to] get the car in the air.
DP: If you became president tomorrow, what’s one rule you would put into place?
Lucie: I would want my school to have water slides sticking out of it to get out of the school and have fun. But they would only be water slides in the summer. They would be snow slides during the winter, leaf slides during autumn, and then flower slides during spring.
Constance: I would clean the floor.
DP: What is one thing you guys are really proud of?
Lucie: Speaking a lot of languages.
Constance: I love speaking in Spanish.
DP: What do you guys think about Princeton?
Lucie: I really like it, and I really like all the stuff in Princeton, like Bent Spoon.
Constance: I love living in Princeton, New Jersey.
Mom translates the question in French.
Constance: My parents!
DP: Is there anything you would change about campus?
Lucie: I would make it more high-tech. Drones that would deliver stuff and houses that are abstract.
Constance: Drawing pictures!
DP: Have you interacted with the students?
Mom: We see students when they go to the dining hall.
Lucie: At Yeh.
DP: Are there any observations you’ve made about students?
Lucie: They’re tall, they’re big, and adults, if they’re 18.
Constance: They’re nice!
DP: Is there any advice you would give to Princeton students?
Lucie: To do more homework! Everybody’s homework, and everybody’s jobs!
Constance: I want them to play. With the foods!
DP: Anything else before we wrap it up?
Lucie: Thank you for the interview!
Constance: Thank you for the interview!
Maya Chu is a Features staff writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.A walkout, a fire alarm, and a group singing the Israeli national anthem.
A speaker event with former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett on Monday was interrupted at various points, with approximately 20 protesters walking out of the event, an extended disruption by an individual who does not appear to have an affiliation with Princeton in the middle, a subsequent fire alarm interruption, singing by the event’s attendees at the end, and yelling between protesters and event attendees in the courtyard after.
The off-the-record event, which was hosted by the Center of Jewish Life (CJL) and co-sponsored by the School of Public and International Affairs, the Program in Judaic Studies, Scharf Family Chabad House of Princeton, and the Mamdouha S. Bobst Center for Peace and Justice, was held in McCosh 10. Rabbi Gil Steinlauf ’91, the director of the CJL, moderated the discussion. Approximately 200 students, faculty, and other community members were in attendance.
Outside the building, about 200 pro-Palestine protesters chanted, screamed and banged on drums in a display of their dissatisfaction at the decision to host the former Israeli prime minister. The chants of protestors outside were audible inside the lecture hall throughout the talk, and reached as far as Firestone Library and the Architecture Building.
Steinlauf welcomed former Prime Minister of Israel Naftali Bennett to the stage shortly after 7:30 p.m. Before declaring that the event was off-the-record, Steinlauf briefly read through Princeton’s regulations on free speech and warned that disrupters would be removed from the event and may face sanctions.
After 20 minutes, about 20 demonstrators stood up and began chanting “Naftali Bennett, you can’t hide, we charge you with genocide.” They promptly walked out of the room to join the protest outside, followed out of the lecture hall by a free speech coordinator, a University staff member charged with enforcing regulations around protests. Outside, they were greeted with cheers from the demonstrators gathered in the courtyard.
A few minutes after, Sayel Kayed, a man sitting near the front, stood and began shouting at Bennett, quoting civilian death tolls in Gaza: “15,000 children killed, what do you say to that?” Kayed does not appear to have any connection to Princeton, and posted about the disruption on his Instagram.
Kayed — accompanied by a second individual videoing the disruption — continued shouting at Bennett for two minutes before he walked out, followed by Public Safety (PSafe) officers, a free speech coordinator, and Dean Jarrett Fisher, who often handles free speech-related events. Much of the audience applauded as Bennett delivered a rebuttal to Kayed.
“Instead of whining for the past 80 years and building your own future, you have focused on killing the Jews. It’s time the Palestinians stopped whining,” Bennett said, according to a video of the exchange posted on social media.
Alexandra Orbuch ’25, who was in attendance, expressed frustration that free speech facilitators had not intervened quickly enough in the incident. “They informed him that he was violating policy, but again, didn’t really lay a hand on him, didn’t do anything, and then escorted him out after he had disrupted the event for quite a while,” she told the ‘Prince.’
At 8:06 p.m., the fire alarm went off in McCosh and Dickinson Halls. Students and community members looked around in confusion before turning their attention to PSafe officers in the back of the hall for guidance. Minutes of confusion passed before it became clear that event attendees would not be evacuated from the building.
The University was unable to provide comment on the circumstances of the fire alarm before publication, although some attendees speculated it had been pulled by a protester.
Rabbi Eitan Webb then began singing “Kol Ha’olam Kulo Gesher Tzar Me’od” (The whole world is a very narrow bridge) and was joined by many of the event’s attendees, many of whom stood up from their seats and gathered around the stage. After the fire alarm was shut off at 8:17 p.m., attendees then sung Hatikvah — the national anthem of Israel — before the event concluded.
Steinlauf reacted to the disruptions that took place in a written statement to the ‘Prince,’ reiterating the Center for Jewish Life’s commitment to open dialogue and civil discourse in the face of differing viewpoints.
“The conversation with Prime Minister Bennett proceeded meaningfully, and the final disruption was met not with chaos, but with spontaneous singing, dancing, and a sense of unity in the room,” he wrote.
Also in attendance was Judah Guggenheim ’25, who led the opposition to last fall’s Undergraduate Student Government (USG) referendum calling for the University to divest from companies involved in weapons manufacturing. He provided The Daily Princetonian with a written statement of his reaction to the disruption.
“It saddens me that the disrupters showed no sense of nuance. They shouted and pulled the fire alarm rather than listening to [Bennett] be asked and respond to difficult questions,” he wrote.
Other attendees also speculated that a protester had intentionally pulled the fire alarm.
Maddy Denker ’27, a member of J Street U, expressed disappointment over what she characterized as Bennett’s misappropriation of Jewish liturgy. “The statements made by Bennett do not represent the beliefs of all Jewish students and they do not represent J Street U’s pro-peace mission,” she wrote. About five J Street U members donned anti-occupation t-shirts and brought signage to the event.
PSafe presence in the area surrounding McCosh hall was notable, with officers guarding every entrance of McCosh and Dickinson Halls and additional officers stationed throughout the area around the event. Two fences spanning the length of McCosh courtyard were set up with a few feet between then, creating a “buffer zone” between the north side of McCosh courtyard and McCosh 10.
After rallying at Nassau Hall around 7 p.m., the protesters marched across campus to the location of the event. Positioning themselves facing a large window that looks into McCosh 10, protesters chanted continuously from 7:10 through the end of the event. Among their chants were cries of “shame,” directed at event attendees. At points during the event, a protester directed a bright flashlight into the window of McCosh 10.
The protest promotion highlighted a 2013 quote from Bennett that “I already killed lots of Arabs in my life, and there is absolutely no problem with that,” a comment a Bennett spokesperson said at the time was misinterpreted. Bennett, a right-wing figure in Israel, recently announced his return to politics.
When attendees left the event, the protesters again broke out into calls of “shame.”
Around 20 people coming out of the event then gathered along the McCosh 10 side of the buffer zone fence, and some protesters and attendees got into verbal confrontations, with individuals on both sides of the fence hurling charged insults and accusations. The environment was notably more tense than previous protests, with arguments between protesters and attendees lasting for over 30 minutes following the event.
A few protesters breached the fence and entered the buffer zone, prompting security personnel and PSafe officers to instruct the protesters to back up. When protesters did not comply, one officer entered into the crowd and pushed them back. That officer was then pulled back by another after the crowd erupted in angry shouts. Protesters remained in the buffer zone for some time before moving back behind the fence.
The University was unable to provide comment on the circumstances of the PSafe incident before publication.
While many of the protesters were students and community members, some were from outside groups. Several members of Neturei Karta International, an anti-zionist Haredi Jewish organization, marched alongside protesters with signs decrying the ongoing conflict in Gaza. Rabbi Dovid Feldman, part of Neturei Karta, spoke with the ‘Prince’ to explain why they were there.
“If we truly want to see a better future, we must address the root cause. We have to address the occupation. We have to stop the occupation in its entirety, for the sake of the oppressed Palestinian people who deserve freedom, and for the sake of the Jewish people who deserve safety and security, all of us deserve a better future,” he said.
Also in attendance was Mahmoud Desouky, who spoke over the megaphone. Desouky is a graduate from Rutgers University and is running for N.J. State Assembly in the 16th District, which he discussed in his speech to the crowd.
“This is the time for change,” Desouky said.
The protest dissipated around 9 p.m., around half an hour after the event ended.
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Pensacola, Fla. and typically covers community activism, the state of higher education, and construction and architecture.
Devon Rudolph is an associate News editor and staff Sports writer for the ‘Prince.’ She is from northern Virginia and typically covers student life and USG.
Kian Petlin is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The University is investigating the disruption of a speaker event on Monday with former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 wrote to The Daily Princetonian on Tuesday. Eisgruber also said that he had personally apologized to Bennett and said he was “appalled at reports of antisemitic language” outside the event.
Eisgruber’s statement followed a letter written by Danielle Shapiro ’25 and Maximillian Meyer ’27, the respective presidents of pro-Israel student groups B’Artzeinu Princeton and Princeton Tigers for Israel. The letter accused protesters of antisemitism, asking Eisgruber to implement a campus-wide mask ban and dissolve Princeton’s chapter of Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP). The letter also called on Eisgruber to issue a public apology to Bennett and initiate disciplinary action against the protesters.
The event with Bennett was initially disrupted by 20 demonstrators shouting “Naftali Bennett, you can’t hide, we charge you with genocide” before walking out of the lecture hall the event was being held in. Another protester disrupted the event several minutes later, yelling at Bennett and refusing to leave for several minutes before being walked out by Public Safety officers and free speech coordinators. The event was further derailed when the fire alarm went off, an action that some have attributed to protesters. Attendees then began singing, including the Israeli national anthem.
Outside, over 200 protesters chanted in McCosh courtyard throughout the duration of the event. As people from the talk spilled into the courtyard, interactions between protesters and event attendees became tense, with people on both sides of the fence shouting at each other.
Despite the presence of protesters at the event, Rabbi Gil Steinlauf ’91, the executive director of the Center for Jewish Life (CJL), highlighted the perceived success of the event in a written statement to the CJL community on Tuesday.
“Those who tried to silence us could not succeed,” he wrote. “Their efforts to disrupt the event instead brought forth something even stronger: a joyful, defiant affirmation of Jewish life and identity.”
The event was a rare example of a speaker being shouted down at Princeton. It comes a week after the Trump administration suspended several dozen grants to the University, citing a pending investigation into antisemitism on campus from last April.
The letter from Meyer and Shapiro describes a number of alleged remarks at the protests as antisemitic, including “go back to Europe,” “you’re all fucking inbred,” and “inbred swine.” The letter also claimed that a protester used an upside-down triangle symbol, which has been used by Hamas’s military wing to identify Israeli targets.
SJP did not respond to multiple requests for comment. In a statement sent to student listservs on Monday afternoon, it decried the University’s decision to host Bennett and wrote that “many were seen dancing and laughing to the protestors’ chants.”
A post on Meyer’s X account appears to show a single protester repeatedly yelling “go back to Europe” to Jewish students on the other side of the fence. Another post captured a protester making an upside-down triangle with their hands. The Daily Princetonian was unable to verify the validity of the other two claims in the letter.
Antisemitic intimidation was on full display at Princeton.Protesters flashed the Hamas triangle at Jewish students outside of Bennett’s talk — and one masked figure evaded an attempted detainment by ditching his frightening face covering.This isn’t activism. It’s hate. pic.twitter.com/xiVQC8xGCG
“Such behavior is reprehensible and intolerable. The University is investigating and will pursue disciplinary measures as appropriate, to the extent any members of the Princeton University community are implicated,” Eisgruber wrote in his statement.
He added that the University was already “taking action” against one protester who was not a University affiliate.
Eisgruber also issued an apology to Bennett.
“Prime Minister Bennett, like all speakers on our campus, had every right to be heard without disruption and to be treated with dignity. I have expressed my regrets personally to Mr. Bennett and thanked him for visiting our campus,” he wrote.
“While we appreciate President Eisgruber’s apology to PM Bennett, condemnation of antisemitism, and commitment to open an investigation, his statement is ultimately a band-aid over years of failed University policies and unwillingness to enforce existing rules. If free speech truly remains Princeton’s cornerstone, punishments for students who violated it last night must clearly reflect the gravity of that breach,” Shapiro wrote to the ‘Prince.’ Similar thoughts were shared by Shapiro in a piece published late Tuesday night in The Free Press.
Calls to ban masks, included in the letter from Meyer and Shapiro, have been a particular flash point between the Trump administration and universities. Columbia University recently banned face coverings for the purpose of obscuring identities as part of its efforts to comply with demands from the government following significant cuts to its federal funding. Additionally, the Trump administration demanded last week that Harvard also ban masks as a condition to avoid losing federal funding.
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Pensacola, Fla. and typically covers community activism, the state of higher education, and construction and architecture.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.All eleven eating clubs on Prospect Ave. are known for their distinctive communities. As sophomores find their fit in terms of the eating and social community they choose to join for their final two years on campus, they must weigh out different aspects of each club that give them their identity. Interested in diversity? Look no further than Cap and Gown, where seniors report the most racial diversity of all the clubs. If your main concern is booze, Tiger Inn is the place.
These clubs have historically been a large part of Princeton’s social scene, with approximately three-quarters of Princeton seniors reporting they have paid dues to at least one eating club during their undergraduate career. With bicker season concluded and hundreds of sophomores settling into their new clubs, the Daily Princetonian broke down the senior respondents aggregated from the 2022, 2023, and 2024 senior surveys, looking at the most interesting trends on the Street. Every club had a sample size of at least 45 students, with five clubs having a sample size of at least 150 over the three years.
According to the past three senior surveys, 76.7 percent of seniors reported having paid dues to at least one eating club during their time at Princeton.
Across all 3 years, sixteen percent of respondents report being first-generation college students. Cloister Inn and non-club students had the highest percentage of first-generation college students, at 22.92 percent and 26.43 percent, respectively.
In contrast, Cannon Dial Elm Club and Tiger Inn had the lowest percentages, with 7.94 percent and 7.69 percent, respectively. Overall, sign-in clubs — Colonial, Cloister, Quadrangle, Terrace, and Charter — had slightly higher percentages of first-generation students compared to bicker clubs, including Cannon, Cap and Gown, Cottage, Ivy, Tiger Inn, and Tower.
Cottage and Ivy Clubs had the highest percentage of members who reported a household income above $500k, with 29.17 percent and 26.92 percent, respectively.
Overall, 18.6 percent of students who never joined an eating club reported having a household income below $40k, the highest percentage of any category analyzed. Among the eating clubs, Terrace and Quadrangle had the highest percentages of members who reported having a household income below $40K, with 16.56 percent and 16.15 percent, respectively.
71.32 percent of respondents who have been members of Colonial Club identified themselves as Asian. Cottage Club and Tiger Inn had the highest percentage of members who identified as white, with 77.36 percent and 74.44 percent, respectively.
Politically, 43.36 percent of Terrace members identified as leftists/socialists, closely followed by Quadrangle Club, with 32.43 percent of members. Cottage Club and Cloister Inn had the highest percentages of members identifying as very conservative, with 11.11 percent and 7.41 percent, respectively. Out of the respondents from Cap and Gown Club that reported leaning towards one specific side, around 96 percent leaned left.
Terrace and Quadrangle clubs had the highest percentage of LGTBQIA+ identifying members. In comparison, Cannon, Cottage, and Tiger Inn had the lowest percentages.
44.9 percent of students who never joined an eating club had not had sex. Among eating clubs, Colonial (33.8 percent) and Quadrangle (33.3 percent) had the lowest percentage of respondent members who haven’t had sex. In contrast, Cap and Gown (93.4 percent) and Ivy Club (93.5 percent) had the highest percentage of members who reported having had sex.
Students who did not join an eating club reported the lowest average drinking frequency (2.42 on a 7-point scale), with approximately 27.6 percent reporting they have never consumed alcohol in a non-religious context, significantly lower than any club-affiliated group, suggesting that club membership may correlate with higher alcohol consumption.
Terrace and Ivy Club members reported the highest levels of marijuana use, with average scores of 2.99 and 2.67 on a 7-point scale, where a score of 3 corresponds to using marijuana “once a month.” In contrast, Colonial Club members reported the lowest frequency of marijuana use.
It is commonly said that there is a club for everyone on the Street. As class sizes expand and new classes join the eating club system, will Princeton’s eating club communities continue to evolve, or will their identities remain?
Danna Duarte is a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On Tuesday, the Municipality of Princeton took formal ownership of the Westminster Choir College campus, a 23-acre property about a 10-minute walk due north of the Engineering Quad.
In a press release, officials confirmed that the town had finalized its $42 million acquisition from Rider University, with the sale approved by Judge Robert Lougy of the New Jersey Superior Court on March 5 and formal recording done with the Mercer County Clerk this week.
Council President Mia Sacks said in the press release that the property would be adapted for public facility needs, which she called “urgent.”
“We look forward to engaging the community over the next 18 months in a multi-faceted planning exercise with robust public engagement and maximum stakeholder input,” she added.
In the press release, Deputy Administrator Deanna Stockton said in the latest release that the municipality has been working closely with Rider University on “a seamless transition,” covering matters such as security, IT, landscaping, and fire systems.
Princeton officials have hired Topology, a New Jersey-based planning firm, to assist with development.
The acquisition comes after more than half a decade of lawsuits, public resistance, and concern over the historic site’s future. Originally gifted to Westminster in 1935 by philanthropist Sophia Strong Taylor for the purpose of training ministers of music, the property has become the subject of legal disputes over whether its religious covenant prohibits transfer to secular entities.
Westminster remained independent until 1991, when severe financial difficulties led to a merger with Rider University. According to court records, the Princeton Theological Seminary declined to assume administrative control, prompting the merger, despite conflicting with Taylor’s original stipulations. As part of the agreement, Rider committed to preserving Westminster’s original programs and mission.
In 2016, facing major financial shortfalls, Rider University announced plans to sell, relocate, or shut down Westminster Choir College. The decision triggered backlash from students, faculty, and alumni, who formed the Westminster Foundation to preserve the college in Princeton.
A 2018 lawsuit filed by the Foundation and faculty members successfully blocked Rider’s attempted sale of the campus to Beijing Kaiwen Education Technology Company. That same year, Princeton Theological Seminary also sued Rider, arguing the 1991 merger agreement required Westminster to remain on its original campus. That case remains unresolved.
The property has remained vacant since 2020, after Rider University’s decision to move the Choir College programs to Rider’s Lawrenceville campus.
Despite the legal resolutions this week, the acquisition is unlikely to bring an end to the legal challenges.
In September, Attorney Bruce Afran, representing the Westminster Foundation and advising Princeton Theological Seminary in related lawsuits, said that “the town will not avoid heavy litigation.”
The announcement comes after public meetings that were held last fall, when town council members approved ordinances to pursue acquisition despite opposition from Westminster faculty, alumni, and preservationists. Critics expressed concern that the site’s musical legacy would be lost and questioned the town’s ability to responsibly manage the facility’s cultural infrastructure.
At the time, longtime Westminster Conservatory teacher Amy Wolf warned that the property’s musical resources should be preserved and feared it might instead be turned into “a 22-acre soccer field.” Other residents questioned the transparency of the acquisition process and called for the formation of a public task force to ensure accountability.
The three nonprofits currently operating on the site — Music Together, Princeton Pro Musica, and the Greater Princeton Youth Orchestra — have had their licenses transferred to the town. The municipality is working to allow the Westminster Conservatory to continue operations on the property.
Princeton Mayor Mark Freda echoed a sense of optimism. “We are pleased that the legal hurdles involving the acquisition of this property have finally been resolved,” he said in the press release. “We are eager to move forward together with the community to come up with the best plan for this site and our residents.”
As public planning efforts are set to begin, it remains to be seen whether the town’s vision will live up to the historic legacy of the Choir college and whether it can withstand the legal battles that ensue.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and education director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Glendale, Calif.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Junior star guard Xaivian Lee's agent announced via ESPN on Friday that he intends to enter the transfer portal. Lee will maintain his college eligibility and also test the National Basketball Association (NBA) draft process once more, doing so less than a year after withdrawing from the 2024 NBA Draft to return for his junior season at Princeton.
“These past three years at Princeton have been the most meaningful of my life,” Lee wrote in a statement posted to his Instagram story. “This place has shaped me as a person and challenged me. It gave me a platform to chase my dreams and now Princeton is a place I know I can always call home.”
Lee enters the portal with a “Do Not Contact” tag, a designation indicating that he is proactively managing his recruitment and does not wish to be approached by programs unless he or his agent initiates contact.
The decision comes after a season in which the Ivy League preseason favorite Tigers fell in the Ivy Madness semifinals and assistant coaches Brett MacConnell and Lawrence Rowley were not retained. MacConnell recruited Lee, who emerged as a standout following his rookie year.
"Xaivian shared his decision to enter the transfer portal," Head Coach Mitch Henderson ’98 wrote to the Daily Princetonian. "He's a tremendous member of this program and we support him in exploring what's best for him as a person, student and basketball player"
In two seasons as a starter, Lee has cemented himself as one of the best players ever to wear the Orange and Black. A two-time unanimous first team All-Ivy selection, this season Lee became the first Tiger to record a triple-double, after an 18 point, 13 rebound, and 10 assist performance against St Joe’s. Lee secured a second triple-double in the Tigers' final game of the regular season against Penn.
Across his sophomore and junior seasons, Lee consistently delivered. In the 2023–24 season, he averaged 17.1 points, 5.7 rebounds, and 3.7 assists per game, becoming one of just five underclassmen nationally to average at least 16 points, five rebounds, and three assists.
He followed that up with an even stronger junior campaign, posting 16.9 points, 6.1 rebounds, and 5.5 assists per game while leading the Ivy League in assist-to-turnover ratio. Lee notched two 30-point games in each of the past two seasons and hit game-winners against Columbia and Dartmouth.
“To my teammates — ya'll know what it is,” Lee wrote. "There's no other group I would've rather gone through the ups and downs with.”
While many expected Lee to declare for the NBA Draft after this season, transferring was thought to be less likely. The latest Bleacher Report mock draft projects him as the 52nd overall pick.
In the modern National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), the high levels of name, image, and likeness (NIL) compensation attracts successful student athletes to stay in college and forgo the pros for a year or two. Lee's decision represents this fundamental change in collegiate sports.
Lee immediately becomes one of the most sought-after players in the transfer portal and is expected to draw interest from high-major programs across the country. Given his recent success, Lee will receive significant NIL interest, with offers likely exceeding seven figures.
Without Lee, the Tigers lose their primary playmaker and leader, and the outlook for next season becomes far less clear. While players like sophomore guard Dalen Davis and junior forward Caden Pierce, a former Ivy League Player of the Year, are expected to take on larger roles, his departure could prompt others to re-evaluate their own futures with the program.
With Lee now in the portal, he is eligible to be contacted by other programs immediately. The spring transfer window closes on May 1, giving him a few weeks to weigh his options before making a decision.
Lee ended his statement by saying, “To the faculty, fans, and community — I wouldn't be much without you. Thanks for giving me the opportunity to represent you, I have nothing but love and gratitude for the school. I hope you continue to follow my story as I willl always do the same."
This story is breaking and will be updated as more details emerge.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and education director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Glendale, Calif.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.This Valentine’s Day season, love is in the air and the numbers. Though the legend says — depending on who you ask — that 50 or 75 or 90 percent of Princetonians find love during their time as undergraduates, The Daily Princetonian analyzed responses from the Frosh and Senior surveys about love, sex, and romance to distinguish fact from fiction.
Here’s what the numbers tell us about love in the Orange Bubble:
According to the Frosh Surveys for the Classes of 2026, 2027, and 2028, an average of 69.8 percent of Princeton first-years are single upon starting their first semester of college. This number decreases to 46.2 percent for graduating seniors from the Classes of 2022, 2023, and 2024.
These trends suggest that a significant part of the undergraduate student body enters a relationship during their four years at Princeton.
However, it’s not all sunshine and orange-hued rainbows — in the 2024 Senior Survey, 2.4 percent of the surveyed seniors reported cheating on a partner. Another challenge for underclass students is navigating elements of hook-up culture at Princeton. Only 27 percent of first-years have had sex before coming to Princeton.
In fact, according to the 2028 Frosh Survey, only 55 percent of this year’s incoming first-years had had their first kiss before they arrived on campus this Fall.
However, by senior year, this significantly changes, as, on average, 74 percent of outgoing seniors are no longer virgins.
If you haven’t found your match yet, you are not alone and might be part of the 46.2 percent of Princeton seniors who leave the Commencement ceremony single.
Additionally, while more than half of the surveyed seniors in relationships met at Princeton, the majority of the married seniors met their spouse outside of the Orange Bubble.
Then where does the 70 percent figure come from? Alumni often testify to reconnecting with former classmates long after graduation.
Another way that Princetonians meet on campus is through the Marriage Pact. The question-based algorithm matches students based on their compatibility, and though the Marriage Pact code remains mysterious, its creators claim that their methods are “research-backed.” During Valentine’s Day in 2024, 2,000 people signed up for the Marriage Pact and 1,500 for Datamatch, hoping to find “the one.”
So, if love hasn’t found you yet, who knows when it might come? The numbers say it could be just around the corner.
Iman Monfopa Kone is a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is an open letter and reflects the authors’ views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
On Monday, the Center for Jewish Life (CJL) is hosting ex-Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett for a conversation on his political career. The event is ticketed, will be held at an off-campus location, and, to our knowledge, was only advertised to the CJL and Chabad listservs. While it is the CJL’s right to host Bennett, we, as Jewish students, disavow and spurn the rhetoric that he has spread across college campuses in the United States, and call on others to join us.
Between 2006 and 2008, Bennett served as Benjamin Netanyahu’s chief of staff, before serving as the head of the Yesha Council, the main political body representing Israeli settlers who live in occupied territory in violation of international law.
A year after becoming prime minister, Bennett dissolved parliament in a move that triggered Netanyahu’s reelection. Since then, Netanyahu has used his administration to oppose a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and –– in the aftermath of the Oct. 7 terror attacks — wage a campaign in Gaza that has killed tens of thousands of Palestinian men, women, and children. While Bennett has conveyed doubts about how the Netanyahu administration is waging that war, he still supports continued fighting above a ceasefire, only leading to more death and destruction.
In and out of office, Bennett has strongly argued against the creation of a Palestinian state, instead suggesting Israeli annexation of Area C in the West Bank — what he refers to as “Judea and Samaria,” biblical terms long associated with a strain of Israeli right-wing politics aiming to further oppress Palestinians and hinder the possibility of Palestinian statehood. He has said that “the most important thing is for Israel to build, build, build,” in reference to illegal West Bank settlements, and that he “will do everything in [his] power to oppose a Palestinian state.”
It is precisely rhetoric like Bennett’s that has increased state and settler violence against Palestinians in the West Bank.
Now, he’s saying that he will not include Arab parties in his government if his party, widely expected to be successful, wins in the October 2026 parliamentary elections. Approximately one-fifth of Israeli citizens are Arab — around two million people.
As progressive Jews, we oppose Naftali Bennett’s long encouragement of West Bank settlement and disregard of Palestinian autonomy. In the strongest possible terms, we reject encroachment on the West Bank that so often involves settler and state-backed violence toward Palestinians. We want to make it extremely clear that — even as the CJL, Chabad of Princeton, and program in Judaic studies cosponsor the upcoming event with Bennett — many Jews at Princeton strongly disagree with Bennett’s actions and statements.
The event is also remarkably closed. Again, to our knowledge, it was only disseminated to the CJL and Chabad listservs. Students must submit questions beforehand. We worry these questions may be filtered and that students may not be able to ask them themselves. Listening from outside of the event will be difficult — Bennett’s past events have been off-the-record, and we expect his Princeton appearance to be the same. Non-ticketed members of the student body will not even know where the event is being held, just that it will take place at an “off-campus location,” that ticketed members will not hear about until 24 hours before the event.
By limiting who attends these events and what topics can be discussed, Bennett avoids difficult but important conversations about his positions that could be started by Jewish and non-Jewish students alike who are not on the CJL or Chabad listserv. The framing of this event limits important discourse on a contentious issue on campus, precisely at a time where the exchange of ideas is so important.
Given the requirement for questions to be submitted beforehand, those who are attending will not be able to respond to what Bennett says over the course of the event and will have no idea of whether their submitted questions will even be asked in the first place.
We also worry that Bennett will use this event at Princeton as campaign material for his anticipated push to return to the Knesset, Israel’s parliament. The CJL’s flyer for the event acknowledges that “while Mr. Bennett has not yet announced his return to politics, he’s generally considered … the leading candidate to be the next Prime Minister of Israel.”
He has also appeared at Columbia and Yale, as well as Harvard — where he joked that if audience members were disruptive during the event, he would “just give them a pager,” referring to the September 2024 Israeli attacks in Lebanon where the Israelis detonated thousands of handheld pagers used by the militant group Hezbollah.
By using these events to talk about his life in business at Harvard or his return to politics here at Princeton, Bennett is drumming up diaspora support to advance his political aims of further subjugating Palestinians. Bennett seems to be starting his campaign trail on the campuses of U.S. colleges and universities. We refuse to be a stomping ground for his racist rhetoric and violent policies: As Jews and University affiliates, we write to say this invitation and endorsement of Bennett is not in our name.
Ultimately, it is important for us — as Jewish people — to stand against Naftali Bennett. We see the structure of this event as limiting free speech and civil discourse surrounding his presence. We don’t expect there to be space for dissent in Bennett’s talk next week, so consider this letter us making our own space: We dissent. We, the undersigned, object to Bennett’s threats of violence against students, history of actions normalizing inequality and violence toward Palestinians, and encouragement of illegal settlements in the West Bank. We urge our fellow Jewish students and other members of our campus community to join us.
Elena Eiss is a first-year from Pittsburgh, Pa., and Assistant Opinion Editor Charlie Yale is a first-year from Omaha, Neb. Both are leaders of the Alliance of Jewish Progressives.
Correction: The version of this open letter circulated for signatures said that the email promoting the lecture was only sent to the CJL listserv. In fact, it was also sent to the Chabad listserv.
Signed,
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.Count yourselves lucky, Class of 2029. Your rooms are already set aside for you. Meanwhile, rising sophomores and some rising juniors and seniors will vie for residential college rooms starting on Wednesday, April 2.
In the upcoming days, students will draw into the various four-year residential college options in a wide range of buildings built from 1877 to 2022.
There are 1,001 rooms available during this year’s residential college draw. Some will end up in a one-room triple or a 99-square-foot trapezoidal single, and one lucky group will find themselves in a 1,115 sq. ft. quad in Whitman, half the size of the median newly-constructed single-family home in the United States.
Butler College’s room draw will start off the set. Each following day, students intending to draw into Forbes, Mathey, New College West, Rockefeller, Whitman, and Yeh will draw in that order. The final day of residential college draw is April 10.
Every year, first-year rooms are withheld from the room draw process so that incoming first years can be assigned to advising groups centered around their Residential College Advisor. Rising sophomores who requested housing accommodations have already been assigned their rooms.
The number of available rooms in each college varies year-by-year depending on the number of rooms reserved for incoming freshmen or students requesting accommodations. The number of available rooms on the upperclass draw list has increased by 11.4 percent — 96 rooms — since last year, even though there are 2,234 students on the list, 40 fewer than last year.
Whitman is offering the most singles this year, with 129 available to the 478 students currently on the Whitman draw list. Rockefeller College, in contrast, has the fewest number of singles up for draw, with 58 rooms available to the 393 students on the draw list.
Students drawing in Butler College have the best chances of getting a “quingle” — a spacious quad with a common room and independent bedrooms for each resident. Butler, with 11 available quingles, is followed by the three newest residential colleges, New College West, Yeh, and Whitman, which each have eight.
For students seeking doubles, Forbes is most plentiful, with 68 two-person rooms available — three times as many as next-in-line Mathey’s 23. However, over 80 percent of two-person rooms offered in Forbes are single-room doubles.
Antoun Salib ’26 is the student in a solo draw group with the first overall pick in the Mathey draw.
“I drew alone, and that’s because I want a single,” Salib told the ‘Prince.’ “I’m really just looking for size and location, so I’m probably just gonna choose the biggest single in Little [Hall],” Salib continued. While Joline Hall and Campbell Hall singles have, on average, 20 additional square feet, Little Hall is more centrally located.
Murley-Pivirotto Tower in Whitman College and 99 Alexander Street, part of Forbes College, have the highest average square footage per resident, with around 197 square feet and 207 square feet respectively.
However, there are discrepancies in the data: According to the University’s officially published available rooms list, Room 205, a two-bedroom double with an en suite bathroom at 99 Alexander Street — colloquially known as the “Pink House” — offers residents 340 square feet each and close proximity to the building’s private kitchen and lounge. Meanwhile, the floor plans of the Pink House show that Room 205 is much smaller than claimed by the university, offering each resident closer to 200 square feet.
The two halls with the lowest average square footage per person are Lauritzen Hall in Whitman and Forbes Main Inn with 134 sq. ft. and 137 sq. ft., most likely due to the high amount of low-square-footage singles in Whitman and the high amount of small single-room doubles in Forbes.
With the exception of quads, Rockefeller College has the highest average square footage among all room types when compared to other residential colleges. On average, Rocky doubles are larger than Forbes triples. However, Forbes has the largest singles.
By the end of the residential college draw, four students will have the opportunity to live in the largest sophomore quad on campus, 1981 F201 in Whitman College, which has 1115 square feet. As one former inhabitant commented on TigerDraw:
“Amazing room! The four singles are all larger than any one person reasonably needs, and the common room is still not crowded with a couch, two armchairs, a futon, a fridge, and a TV on a cabinet.”
Four other students will have the privilege of living in the fifth smallest quad across residential college draw, Campbell 32 in Rockefeller College, which has 422 square feet. On TigerDraw, one reviewer wrote:
“Campbell basically has the smallest quads of any res college. Its possible to debunk only if all of the desks and bookshelves are moved out…Campbell also looks like a WW2 bunker. you get used to it.”
Whether you score a palace in Whitman or a broom closet in Mathey, at the end of the day, it’s all just luck of the draw.
Vincent Etherton is a head Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Alexa Wingate is a head Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Iman Monfopa Kone contributed reporting.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Each year, Street Week brings exciting opportunities, as hundreds of sophomores navigate the eating club selection process — but with Bicker clubs, on average, rejecting nearly two thirds of applicants, it also brings disappointment for many students.
Tower, in particular, had a drop of 17 percentage points in its acceptance rate — the lowest since at least 2018. No club had a significant increase in acceptance rate. This Street Week, 624 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs, compared to 629 in 2024 and 633 the year before. The Class of 2027, with 1,366 members, is the second expanded class year to participate in Street Week.
With hundreds of students vying for limited spots, some individuals felt daunted by the numbers. Olivia Bell ’27 held the perspective that Bicker felt less about personality and more about connections.
“Cap, I didn’t think I’d get in … I think it’s mainly about who you know, and not as much about your character and if they like you as a person,” said Bell. She ultimately joined Charter.
“I had trouble believing that out of the 400 people bickering Cap, they’ll like me over 300 other people — for a while, I thought to myself, is there even a point bickering?” added Melody Cui ’27. She is now a member of Cap and Gown.
Despite increasing interest in Cap and Gown, its accepted class sizes have remained relatively constant in recent years. While most clubs have increased membership to accommodate growing demand, Cap is the only Bicker club that has not substantially expanded since at least 2021. This lack of change has made an already selective process even more competitive, as more students apply for the same number of spots each year.
While Tower accepted one of its largest Bicker classes since 2000, its acceptance rate also dropped significantly from last year, making entry into the club more competitive than expected. This trend reflects growing interest in Tower.
Though double Bicker was instituted for all clubs in 2017, offering students more flexibility, the uncertainty surrounding admission still impacts how some students rank their club preferences.
“When I was ranking the clubs, I was thinking about what club I would want to go to the most, but also realistically what club would I have a chance of getting into,” Cui explained. But ultimately, she decided to trust her instincts. “At the end of the day, they’ll choose what they want, so I should choose what I want too.”
Some clubs, like Charter and Cap, have started accommodating for the size increase. Charter, for instance, is currently expanding its dining space, while Cap added a new wing to their dining room.
Overall, the number of newly admitted Bickerees hasn’t kept up with Princeton’s growing class size, leaving acceptance rates tighter than ever. For the coming years, students may expect to continue bickering with a mix of excitement, strategy, and uncertainty, hoping in the end to find a place that feels like home.
Chima Oparaji is a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Princeton women’s basketball saw half the attendance numbers of the men’s team at both Jadwin Gym and away venues this season — despite a better Ivy League record and a March Madness appearance in the First Four.
Throughout the men’s 30 games and women’s 28, fan attendance varied from venue to venue. On average, men’s basketball attracted more than double the attendance both at Jadwin Gym and away. At Jadwin, an average of 2,503 attendants cheered on the men’s team, while an average audience of 1,311 cheered on the women. This filled up, on average, 36.1 percent and 18.1 percent of the gymnasium’s 6,854 person capacity, respectively.
Aside from the annual Jersey Jam—a yearly contest between Rutgers University men’s basketball and Princeton’s men’s team contested at a neutral venue—the highest attended matchups on either side saw approximately 4,050 fans attend.
On average, Princeton men’s basketball brought more attendees to Jadwin than away venues. When the women's team played, Jadwin was the third-highest-attended venue on average, while women's away games at Columbia and Harvard had more attendees.
Games on Fridays and Saturdays for the men’s team had the most attendance, while women’s games with the highest attendance were non-conference games on Mondays.
The highest attendance for both teams occurred in the afternoon between 2 p.m. and 5:30 p.m., with the men’s team drawing an average of 2,792 fans and the women’s team attracting 1,574. The women’s team’s postseason appearance may also drive higher attendance in the coming seasons, while the men’s team can continue capitalizing on their strong home support at Jadwin Gym.
Men’s basketball finished third in the Ivy League after falling to Yale in the Ivy Madness tournament. Women’s basketball finished second in the Ivy League after a narrow three-point loss to Harvard in Ivy Madness. They lost to Iowa State in the First Four of the NCAA Tournament on Wednesday night.
Over the past 15 years, Princeton men’s basketball has appeared in three NCAA tournaments, including their historic run to the Sweet Sixteen in 2023. They were also two-time Ivy League postseason champions. In the same timeframe, Princeton women’s basketball has appeared in seven NCAA tournaments, including their sixth consecutive appearance in 2025, and won the Ivy League five times.
While the attendance disparity is likely not unique to Princeton, women’s college basketball has been growing in prominence on the national stage. The 2024 NCAA tournament was the first time that the women’s title game  more viewers than the men’s — an average of 18.7 million, compared to 14.82 million.
Elaine Gao is a contributing Data and Research writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.A walkout, a fire alarm, and a group singing the Israeli national anthem.
A speaker event with former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett on Monday was interrupted at various points, with approximately 20 protesters walking out of the event, an extended disruption by an individual who does not appear to have an affiliation with Princeton in the middle, a subsequent fire alarm interruption, singing by the event’s attendees at the end, and yelling between protesters and event attendees in the courtyard after.
The off-the-record event, which was hosted by the Center of Jewish Life (CJL) and co-sponsored by the School of Public and International Affairs, the Program in Judaic Studies, Scharf Family Chabad House of Princeton, and the Mamdouha S. Bobst Center for Peace and Justice, was held in McCosh 10. Rabbi Gil Steinlauf ’91, the director of the CJL, moderated the discussion. Approximately 200 students, faculty, and other community members were in attendance.
Outside the building, about 200 pro-Palestine protesters chanted, screamed and banged on drums in a display of their dissatisfaction at the decision to host the former Israeli prime minister. The chants of protestors outside were audible inside the lecture hall throughout the talk, and reached as far as Firestone Library and the Architecture Building.
Steinlauf welcomed former Prime Minister of Israel Naftali Bennett to the stage shortly after 7:30 p.m. Before declaring that the event was off-the-record, Steinlauf briefly read through Princeton’s regulations on free speech and warned that disrupters would be removed from the event and may face sanctions.
After 20 minutes, about 20 demonstrators stood up and began chanting “Naftali Bennett, you can’t hide, we charge you with genocide.” They promptly walked out of the room to join the protest outside, followed out of the lecture hall by a free speech coordinator, a University staff member charged with enforcing regulations around protests. Outside, they were greeted with cheers from the demonstrators gathered in the courtyard.
A few minutes after, Sayel Kayed, a man sitting near the front, stood and began shouting at Bennett, quoting civilian death tolls in Gaza: “15,000 children killed, what do you say to that?” Kayed does not appear to have any connection to Princeton, and posted about the disruption on his Instagram.
Kayed — accompanied by a second individual videoing the disruption — continued shouting at Bennett for two minutes before he walked out, followed by Public Safety (PSafe) officers, a free speech coordinator, and Dean Jarrett Fisher, who often handles free speech-related events. Much of the audience applauded as Bennett delivered a rebuttal to Kayed.
“Instead of whining for the past 80 years and building your own future, you have focused on killing the Jews. It’s time the Palestinians stopped whining,” Bennett said, according to a video of the exchange posted on social media.
Alexandra Orbuch ’25, who was in attendance, expressed frustration that free speech facilitators had not intervened quickly enough in the incident. “They informed him that he was violating policy, but again, didn’t really lay a hand on him, didn’t do anything, and then escorted him out after he had disrupted the event for quite a while,” she told the ‘Prince.’
At 8:06 p.m., the fire alarm went off in McCosh and Dickinson Halls. Students and community members looked around in confusion before turning their attention to PSafe officers in the back of the hall for guidance. Minutes of confusion passed before it became clear that event attendees would not be evacuated from the building.
The University was unable to provide comment on the circumstances of the fire alarm before publication, although some attendees speculated it had been pulled by a protester.
Rabbi Eitan Webb then began singing “Kol Ha’olam Kulo Gesher Tzar Me’od” (The whole world is a very narrow bridge) and was joined by many of the event’s attendees, many of whom stood up from their seats and gathered around the stage. After the fire alarm was shut off at 8:17 p.m., attendees then sung Hatikvah — the national anthem of Israel — before the event concluded.
Steinlauf reacted to the disruptions that took place in a written statement to the ‘Prince,’ reiterating the Center for Jewish Life’s commitment to open dialogue and civil discourse in the face of differing viewpoints.
“The conversation with Prime Minister Bennett proceeded meaningfully, and the final disruption was met not with chaos, but with spontaneous singing, dancing, and a sense of unity in the room,” he wrote.
Also in attendance was Judah Guggenheim ’25, who led the opposition to last fall’s Undergraduate Student Government (USG) referendum calling for the University to divest from companies involved in weapons manufacturing. He provided The Daily Princetonian with a written statement of his reaction to the disruption.
“It saddens me that the disrupters showed no sense of nuance. They shouted and pulled the fire alarm rather than listening to [Bennett] be asked and respond to difficult questions,” he wrote.
Other attendees also speculated that a protester had intentionally pulled the fire alarm.
Maddy Denker ’27, a member of J Street U, expressed disappointment over what she characterized as Bennett’s misappropriation of Jewish liturgy. “The statements made by Bennett do not represent the beliefs of all Jewish students and they do not represent J Street U’s pro-peace mission,” she wrote. About five J Street U members donned anti-occupation t-shirts and brought signage to the event.
PSafe presence in the area surrounding McCosh hall was notable, with officers guarding every entrance of McCosh and Dickinson Halls and additional officers stationed throughout the area around the event. Two fences spanning the length of McCosh courtyard were set up with a few feet between then, creating a “buffer zone” between the north side of McCosh courtyard and McCosh 10.
After rallying at Nassau Hall around 7 p.m., the protesters marched across campus to the location of the event. Positioning themselves facing a large window that looks into McCosh 10, protesters chanted continuously from 7:10 through the end of the event. Among their chants were cries of “shame,” directed at event attendees. At points during the event, a protester directed a bright flashlight into the window of McCosh 10.
The protest promotion highlighted a 2013 quote from Bennett that “I already killed lots of Arabs in my life, and there is absolutely no problem with that,” a comment a Bennett spokesperson said at the time was misinterpreted. Bennett, a right-wing figure in Israel, recently announced his return to politics.
When attendees left the event, the protesters again broke out into calls of “shame.”
Around 20 people coming out of the event then gathered along the McCosh 10 side of the buffer zone fence, and some protesters and attendees got into verbal confrontations, with individuals on both sides of the fence hurling charged insults and accusations. The environment was notably more tense than previous protests, with arguments between protesters and attendees lasting for over 30 minutes following the event.
A few protesters breached the fence and entered the buffer zone, prompting security personnel and PSafe officers to instruct the protesters to back up. When protesters did not comply, one officer entered into the crowd and pushed them back. That officer was then pulled back by another after the crowd erupted in angry shouts. Protesters remained in the buffer zone for some time before moving back behind the fence.
The University was unable to provide comment on the circumstances of the PSafe incident before publication.
While many of the protesters were students and community members, some were from outside groups. Several members of Neturei Karta International, an anti-zionist Haredi Jewish organization, marched alongside protesters with signs decrying the ongoing conflict in Gaza. Rabbi Dovid Feldman, part of Neturei Karta, spoke with the ‘Prince’ to explain why they were there.
“If we truly want to see a better future, we must address the root cause. We have to address the occupation. We have to stop the occupation in its entirety, for the sake of the oppressed Palestinian people who deserve freedom, and for the sake of the Jewish people who deserve safety and security, all of us deserve a better future,” he said.
Also in attendance was Mahmoud Desouky, who spoke over the megaphone. Desouky is a graduate from Rutgers University and is running for N.J. State Assembly in the 16th District, which he discussed in his speech to the crowd.
“This is the time for change,” Desouky said.
The protest dissipated around 9 p.m., around half an hour after the event ended.
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Pensacola, Fla. and typically covers community activism, the state of higher education, and construction and architecture.
Devon Rudolph is an associate News editor and staff Sports writer for the ‘Prince.’ She is from northern Virginia and typically covers student life and USG.
Kian Petlin is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The University is investigating the disruption of a speaker event on Monday with former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 wrote to The Daily Princetonian on Tuesday. Eisgruber also said that he had personally apologized to Bennett and said he was “appalled at reports of antisemitic language” outside the event.
Eisgruber’s statement followed a letter written by Danielle Shapiro ’25 and Maximillian Meyer ’27, the respective presidents of pro-Israel student groups B’Artzeinu Princeton and Princeton Tigers for Israel. The letter accused protesters of antisemitism, asking Eisgruber to implement a campus-wide mask ban and dissolve Princeton’s chapter of Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP). The letter also called on Eisgruber to issue a public apology to Bennett and initiate disciplinary action against the protesters.
The event with Bennett was initially disrupted by 20 demonstrators shouting “Naftali Bennett, you can’t hide, we charge you with genocide” before walking out of the lecture hall the event was being held in. Another protester disrupted the event several minutes later, yelling at Bennett and refusing to leave for several minutes before being walked out by Public Safety officers and free speech coordinators. The event was further derailed when the fire alarm went off, an action that some have attributed to protesters. Attendees then began singing, including the Israeli national anthem.
Outside, over 200 protesters chanted in McCosh courtyard throughout the duration of the event. As people from the talk spilled into the courtyard, interactions between protesters and event attendees became tense, with people on both sides of the fence shouting at each other.
Despite the presence of protesters at the event, Rabbi Gil Steinlauf ’91, the executive director of the Center for Jewish Life (CJL), highlighted the perceived success of the event in a written statement to the CJL community on Tuesday.
“Those who tried to silence us could not succeed,” he wrote. “Their efforts to disrupt the event instead brought forth something even stronger: a joyful, defiant affirmation of Jewish life and identity.”
The event was a rare example of a speaker being shouted down at Princeton. It comes a week after the Trump administration suspended several dozen grants to the University, citing a pending investigation into antisemitism on campus from last April.
The letter from Meyer and Shapiro describes a number of alleged remarks at the protests as antisemitic, including “go back to Europe,” “you’re all fucking inbred,” and “inbred swine.” The letter also claimed that a protester used an upside-down triangle symbol, which has been used by Hamas’s military wing to identify Israeli targets.
SJP did not respond to multiple requests for comment. In a statement sent to student listservs on Monday afternoon, it decried the University’s decision to host Bennett and wrote that “many were seen dancing and laughing to the protestors’ chants.”
A post on Meyer’s X account appears to show a single protester repeatedly yelling “go back to Europe” to Jewish students on the other side of the fence. Another post captured a protester making an upside-down triangle with their hands. The Daily Princetonian was unable to verify the validity of the other two claims in the letter.
Antisemitic intimidation was on full display at Princeton.Protesters flashed the Hamas triangle at Jewish students outside of Bennett’s talk — and one masked figure evaded an attempted detainment by ditching his frightening face covering.This isn’t activism. It’s hate. pic.twitter.com/xiVQC8xGCG
“Such behavior is reprehensible and intolerable. The University is investigating and will pursue disciplinary measures as appropriate, to the extent any members of the Princeton University community are implicated,” Eisgruber wrote in his statement.
He added that the University was already “taking action” against one protester who was not a University affiliate.
Eisgruber also issued an apology to Bennett.
“Prime Minister Bennett, like all speakers on our campus, had every right to be heard without disruption and to be treated with dignity. I have expressed my regrets personally to Mr. Bennett and thanked him for visiting our campus,” he wrote.
“While we appreciate President Eisgruber’s apology to PM Bennett, condemnation of antisemitism, and commitment to open an investigation, his statement is ultimately a band-aid over years of failed University policies and unwillingness to enforce existing rules. If free speech truly remains Princeton’s cornerstone, punishments for students who violated it last night must clearly reflect the gravity of that breach,” Shapiro wrote to the ‘Prince.’ Similar thoughts were shared by Shapiro in a piece published late Tuesday night in The Free Press.
Calls to ban masks, included in the letter from Meyer and Shapiro, have been a particular flash point between the Trump administration and universities. Columbia University recently banned face coverings for the purpose of obscuring identities as part of its efforts to comply with demands from the government following significant cuts to its federal funding. Additionally, the Trump administration demanded last week that Harvard also ban masks as a condition to avoid losing federal funding.
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Pensacola, Fla. and typically covers community activism, the state of higher education, and construction and architecture.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The precious minutes before classes wrap for the day are often signaled by the crinkling of paper and the echo of rushed zippers. Cramming loose pencils and expensive laptops into their bags of choice, students brush by each other as they near the classroom exit.
Some students carry bags that are clear forms of aesthetic expression, while others seem to use a bag only because they had to. Wrapping up the last of my classes for the day, I found myself leisurely strolling through the main campus, taking in the clusters of students hauling everything from full backpacks to empty totes. In these moments of observation, here’s what I found.
As groups of students open the heavy wooden doors at McCosh 50, you can’t help but notice a wave of sleek, minimal black bags. Spanning brands from The North Face to Herschel Supply & Co., these bags rarely deviate from the norm with a sleek, minimal aesthetic, except for the occasional decorated pin or sentimental patch.
Many of these bags have been accompanying their student counterparts since their high school years. In an interview with The Daily Princetonian, Nicole Ramirez ’27 said of her bag, “I’ve had her since my sophomore year of high school, and I just have to sew her up every once in a while.”
Aside from the usual worn-down backpack, another familiar backpack among the student body continues the sporty, sleek trend — the Princeton athlete backpack, adorned with tags and symbols of the owner’s sport.
But even athletes are updating their bags — although within the brands under which they are contracted.
“We get one every year. So I’ve just kind of cycled through four backpacks during my time here,” said Mason Armstead ’25, a defensive back on the football team. While athletes aren’t required to wear their issued bags, he mentioned some restrictions on the type of bag he is allowed to carry: “No Under Armour or some other sports teams [brands],” he said, since the Princeton football team contracts with Nike.
Beyond their oftentimes simple exteriors, backpacks are a popular choice of bag because of their useful interiors. With a million random pockets, the most organized (or disorganized) student can neatly manage their items, or at least attempt to. The appeal of these bags is simple, and their function is guaranteed for users: Even the clumsiest student knows that their expensive technology won’t be cracked anytime soon.
Pushing past the sea of black bags and moving towards East Pyne, the bag colors shifted from black to beige and from two shoulder straps to one. Rather than minimalist exteriors and complex interiors, the world of tote bags, designed with the opposite concept, opened in front of me.
Like a treasure hunt without the map, tote users must forage in their bag for their singular pen, which, of course, is right next to the book they don’t read.
Dylan Conard ’27 uses a canvas tote bag that has a light blue painted background stamped with picturesque images of France. Conard found the tote during his trip to Paris, where he was visiting a family member. This was typical with tote users I spoke to: Designs were often tied to the stories of where students found them.
In fact, from the Princeton-branded totes found in the U-Store to totes found abroad in foreign places like Madrid and Greece, it seems that no two totes are the same. Unlike other bags, however, I found that it was rare to see individual expression in the form of attached charms or pins on tote bags. It seems that tote bag users base their individuality on the original design of their tote bag or, simply, whatever was conveniently on the tote, regardless of design.
“I had a backpack, and I switched to a bag just because it’s bigger and more convenient for my computer,” Maria Olivarez ’28 said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ Olivarez’s current tote is decorated with popular Princeton imagery and was sourced from the U-Store. Doodles of iconic buildings such as the Princeton Chapel are paired with drawings of tigers, making Olivarez’s tote both functional and fashionable.
However, there is one standout tote bag that has recently made waves on campus: the Longchamp Le Pliage Original L Tote bag, specifically in the color Navy. Gaining popularity on social platforms such as TikTok and Instagram, this tote quickly replaced the former slouchy leather tote bag aesthetic that was present last semester.
Some Longchamp owners, like Anamaria Artola ’27, made the switch from using a backpack to a tote. Artola told the Prince, “I like this bag because I only carry my computer and my iPad. Since everything’s on a laptop and it’s pretty light, you can keep it in the tote.”
Combining the possible sore shoulders of the tote bag and the maximum square footage in a backpack, one group of bags balances the expressive traits of tote bags with the organized aesthetic of backpacks: the messenger bag. Ranging in construction from deep red and black leather to lighter canvas fabrics, messenger bags on campus are often decorated with unique and mismatched charms and trinkets.
“I got a carabiner from my host grandmother in Japan, and I also have a little mahjong towel that I got from a gotcha-pong machine,” said Matthew Barrett ’25. Barrett’s bag was gifted from a family member, a trend I saw in other messenger bags around campus. The older aesthetic still serves its purpose for a new generation.
While our bags may serve as our mostly-unacknowledged companions through the experience of Princeton, our choice in how we carry our tools of success might make you give a second thought about bags the next time you rush off to your next class.
Amanda Hugas is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for The Prospect. She can be reached by her email at ah0942@princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Living on a sprawling Ivy League campus that balances newly-designed pristine buildings, brick-laid brutalist designs, and colossal gothic libraries, it is easy to forget we live in the actual town of Princeton, N.J. too.
In fact, a straight shot, two-block walk away from the storied FitzRandolph gates lies one of the greatest microcosms in the town of Princeton: a public library.
While many have never entered the recently renovated three-story building, I have found myself there many times over my first one-and-a-half semesters at Princeton. Whether optimistically checking out classic novels I soon return due to a massive misjudgment in free time or finding a way to break routine and burst the occasionally overwhelming “Orange Bubble,” the Princeton Public Library is a colorful space to study, sift through endless shelves of books, and people-watch.
As I approached the library after a post-RoMa meal, Sakrid coffee in hand, I thought back on some of the classic moments I had experienced at the one-and-only Princeton Public Library. These random moments include an older lady unpromptedly yelling, “SHOUT OUT HARRIET TUBMAN,” with both wired earphones in ear, and a 12-year-old spontaneously going into a griddy-induced shock, shaking his arms wildly while running back and forth across the first floor.
So when I arrived at the library around 1:30 p.m. on a strangely humid and warm Monday, I was ecstatic to see what would happen.
A kind, older gentleman opened the door for me as I entered the library. Walking inside, I found the modernized, 70s-esque brick building surprisingly packed for a mid-afternoon weekday. People of all ages were scattered throughout. Finding my way to the second floor, I could see an older lady, about 65, doing two puzzles simultaneously, with the multicolored pieces strewn across the wooden table. Glancing across the first floor to one of the many children’s sections, I saw a child break into a griddy.
Griddy Counter: 1
Before I could even get settled into a spot on the second floor, I overheard two high school boys behind me loudly whispering.
“Bro … Emma’s here … downstairs,” one of the guys whispered in a hilariously conspicuous voice.
“Nah … it’s okay. I don’t wanna talk to her,” the other guy responded, while anxiously grabbing and pulling the collar of his T-shirt to his mouth.
“What do you mean, bro … you’re … like in love with her,” the guy stated, not even trying to whisper at this point.
The other guy shook his head, and the pair scrambled out of my sight.
“True love must wait,” I thought to myself.
As the caffeine from my coffee started to kick in and I started to get some work done, I overheard another conversation between two older ladies behind me. As they passed, I heard one say to the other, “I asked her to cut it beneath my shoulders, not above.” I turned my head slightly to see the lady place her hands on her hair, irritatedly gesturing to her friend where her hairdresser should have cut.
From across the floor, I heard an older man’s voice loudly reading out what is obviously a password.
“Zero, eight … zero, eight, … zero, eight,” he repeats over and over before sighing and stating, “No, no, no.”
Letting my curiosity get the best of me, I looped towards him. I trekked through the jungle of metallic bookshelves filled with their vivid “leaves” of cookbooks and travel books. As I got closer, the man, dressed impeccably well in a tan blazer, was on the phone in the supposed “quiet section” of the library, taking a phone call while talking at full volume. I laughed to myself and returned to my spot.
I walked to refill my water bottle. On my way, I passed a pack of giggling middle school girls. “Did you see how Lucas turned around?” one of them remarked to the others through a stifled laugh on the way down the stairs. Hearing this conversation, I couldn’t help but wonder if it was a continuation of the teenage soap opera I had stumbled upon less than a half hour before. Will our alpaca haircut hero ever find his requited crush? I guess we’ll never know.
The longer I sat, the more the urge to check out another book I know I don’t have time to finish grew stronger. Taking a small break from my work, I walked back to the first floor and strolled across the classic fiction section. On my way down the stairs, I heard three elementary school kids eagerly clamouring about checking out a book. Listening to their excitement brought back a flood of elementary school memories of public libraries and the unparalleled thrill I once had of checking out a book about Bigfoot and the Loch Ness Monster. Pulling myself out of an insanely premature spiral about age, I returned to my study spot.
As I left the library, I was again reminded of the importance of understanding that a world outside of problem sets, essays, and 8:30 a.m. lectures exists. While at times being a Princeton student can feel like a heavy burden or an endless climb against piling assignments, having the opportunity to spend time in a community space like the Princeton Public Library and see people of all ages come together is essential for grounding you and giving perspective. Any time these inevitable feelings appear, I implore you to get out of your usual routine of Firestone or Lewis and come to the Princeton Public Library, where you can not only break up the monotony of studying but entertain yourself with the endlessly weird public habits of people.
Gavin McLoughlin, a member of the Class of 2028, is an associate editor for The Prospect. He can be reached at gm9041[at]princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On Tuesday, the Municipality of Princeton took formal ownership of the Westminster Choir College campus, a 23-acre property about a 10-minute walk due north of the Engineering Quad.
In a press release, officials confirmed that the town had finalized its $42 million acquisition from Rider University, with the sale approved by Judge Robert Lougy of the New Jersey Superior Court on March 5 and formal recording done with the Mercer County Clerk this week.
Council President Mia Sacks said in the press release that the property would be adapted for public facility needs, which she called “urgent.”
“We look forward to engaging the community over the next 18 months in a multi-faceted planning exercise with robust public engagement and maximum stakeholder input,” she added.
In the press release, Deputy Administrator Deanna Stockton said in the latest release that the municipality has been working closely with Rider University on “a seamless transition,” covering matters such as security, IT, landscaping, and fire systems.
Princeton officials have hired Topology, a New Jersey-based planning firm, to assist with development.
The acquisition comes after more than half a decade of lawsuits, public resistance, and concern over the historic site’s future. Originally gifted to Westminster in 1935 by philanthropist Sophia Strong Taylor for the purpose of training ministers of music, the property has become the subject of legal disputes over whether its religious covenant prohibits transfer to secular entities.
Westminster remained independent until 1991, when severe financial difficulties led to a merger with Rider University. According to court records, the Princeton Theological Seminary declined to assume administrative control, prompting the merger, despite conflicting with Taylor’s original stipulations. As part of the agreement, Rider committed to preserving Westminster’s original programs and mission.
In 2016, facing major financial shortfalls, Rider University announced plans to sell, relocate, or shut down Westminster Choir College. The decision triggered backlash from students, faculty, and alumni, who formed the Westminster Foundation to preserve the college in Princeton.
A 2018 lawsuit filed by the Foundation and faculty members successfully blocked Rider’s attempted sale of the campus to Beijing Kaiwen Education Technology Company. That same year, Princeton Theological Seminary also sued Rider, arguing the 1991 merger agreement required Westminster to remain on its original campus. That case remains unresolved.
The property has remained vacant since 2020, after Rider University’s decision to move the Choir College programs to Rider’s Lawrenceville campus.
Despite the legal resolutions this week, the acquisition is unlikely to bring an end to the legal challenges.
In September, Attorney Bruce Afran, representing the Westminster Foundation and advising Princeton Theological Seminary in related lawsuits, said that “the town will not avoid heavy litigation.”
The announcement comes after public meetings that were held last fall, when town council members approved ordinances to pursue acquisition despite opposition from Westminster faculty, alumni, and preservationists. Critics expressed concern that the site’s musical legacy would be lost and questioned the town’s ability to responsibly manage the facility’s cultural infrastructure.
At the time, longtime Westminster Conservatory teacher Amy Wolf warned that the property’s musical resources should be preserved and feared it might instead be turned into “a 22-acre soccer field.” Other residents questioned the transparency of the acquisition process and called for the formation of a public task force to ensure accountability.
The three nonprofits currently operating on the site — Music Together, Princeton Pro Musica, and the Greater Princeton Youth Orchestra — have had their licenses transferred to the town. The municipality is working to allow the Westminster Conservatory to continue operations on the property.
Princeton Mayor Mark Freda echoed a sense of optimism. “We are pleased that the legal hurdles involving the acquisition of this property have finally been resolved,” he said in the press release. “We are eager to move forward together with the community to come up with the best plan for this site and our residents.”
As public planning efforts are set to begin, it remains to be seen whether the town’s vision will live up to the historic legacy of the Choir college and whether it can withstand the legal battles that ensue.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and education director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Glendale, Calif.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Between 7:30 each morning and eight at night, Princeton students flood the campus’s seven dining halls. Whether grabbing a pastry on the way to an early morning lecture, enjoying well-deserved cookies with their closest friends, or simply taking a quiet moment to recharge with a slice of cake, students consume around 6,000 desserts daily. While this big number may lead to assumptions that these desserts are mass imported by a faraway dessert company, this couldn’t be farther from the truth.
Hidden below the Rockefeller-Mathey dining hall lies a magical workshop of sweets called the RoMA bakery. Within this bakeshop, 100% of the residential college menus and around 90% of campus’s retail menus are made from scratch daily and shipped to residential dining halls and special events.
Powered by a tight-knit group of five bakers and two delivery people, the RoMa bakery is much akin to Princeton’s Area 51, except instead of possible aliens, it possesses a much more dangerous secret: over 60-year-old chocolate chip cookie recipes.
Marked only by an 8x11 inch piece of paper taped to a pipe above the basement entrance that reads “BAKESHOP,” the RoMa bakeshop is at first unassuming: a medium-sized room perpetually buzzing with the sounds of baking machinery and filled with heavenly smells of cookie dough and freshly baked brownies. The room has a large central wooden table, where bakers pour sheets of brownies, and baking machinery large enough to hold stacks of baked goods the height of an NBA player line the room’s perimeter. Except for a small test table in a corner, everything within the bakeshop feels massive compared to our kitchens at home.
The grand size of everything makes sense when considering the bakery’s immense production. The shop uses roughly 150 pounds of King Arthur flour each shift. The flour arrives in sealed bags that seem more appropriate for a Home Depot.
While most of the bakery’s machinery is remarkably vintage, with countless 50-year-old mixers, one clear exception is the bakery’s cookie machine. Purchased in 2023, the machine can make around 130 dozen cookies and store information on over 1,000 recipes.
Thanks to the machine, Executive Pastry Chef Michael DiLiberto shared in an interview with The Daily Princetonian, “Usually when we do a batch of cookies, it’s around 120 dozen, 130 dozen.”
To work it, a baker loads over 200 pounds of cookie dough into a large funnel on top, electronically sets the machine for the desired type of cookie, and then loads empty trays onto a conveyor belt below. Small balls are then dropped onto the pan under a giant metal vat of dough, which the machine spits out on the other end.
The bakers also use a dough shooter and two large, old mixers. Indeed, while the bakery’s new cookie machine represents an investment in increased productivity, this type of equipment change is rare.
“There’s not many moving parts on the inside,” DiLiberto said, referring to the over 50-year-old mixer. “If you fix them the right way, they will last a hundred years or so,” There is value in using the same old equipment “because it works,” he asserted.
However, beyond the bakery’s robust machinery and resources, the most impressive aspect of the RoMa Bake Shop is its people.
While Princeton students may grumble about getting out of bed for their 10 a.m., the five-person baking team, led by Executive Pastry Chef Michael DiLiberto, typically arrives every morning at 3 a.m., finishing their shifts around noon.
The bakery’s early hours and high-pressure environment could create a challenging work environment. Yet, the team is incredibly supportive of one another, with DiLiberto referring to the team as a ‘family.’ “The kitchen culture is a tight community. You have each other’s back because there’s no other way to get this type of production done. It’s something that keeps guys like us and women in the business for so long,” Gattis said.
Given the limited time and the massive volume of food required, the bakers are in a constant race against the clock. As Culinary Associate Director Michael Gattis puts it, “Dinner is at five. Lunch is at 11:30. There is no not getting [it] out on time.” In the end, their ability to consistently assemble quality goods all comes down to experience.
The high-quality result of the bakers’ work is a combination of science and instinct, balancing quality and quantity with experience. This experience is essential for many of the bakery’s 50-year-old and older recipes that often contain only a list of ingredients. The bakers simply have to know the method for mixing the dough and how to bake it.
The bakers also internalize the scientific nature of baking, adjusting their process as they bake to account for humidity and ingredient substitutions. Further, during Princeton’s summer downtime, the bakeshop experiments with new recipes and ingredients and modifies recipes for scale and new machinery.
“They’re tried, they’re tested, they’re approved, and then they go into our database,” Gattis explained.
While many of the bakeshop’s recipes rely on tried-and-tested methods, there is still room for innovation. For example, for Women’s History Month this year, the team pioneered baker Kayla Burg’s Chocolate Dirt Pudding recipe, one of her family’s favorite recipes, inspired by the time she spent helping her parents in their garden growing up. As they do with all family recipes, the bake shop worked with Kayla to preserve the integrity of her family recipe, while adapting to serve the whole campus, balancing family tradition with innovation.
In many ways, the bakeshop is a direct continuation of the ideals Princeton represents, blending tradition, innovation, and community. This message remained constant throughout the tour, perfectly embodied by Gattis’s comment, “Part of the scratch cooking is the campus dining’s initiative to move away from processed foods … for the health and wellness of our students. There’s a cost involved with it, but … it’s the right thing to do … it’s the Princeton Way.”
Learning from the bakers at RoMa Bakery revealed one of Princeton’s largest not-so-hidden secrets and demonstrated how the “Princeton way” applies to far more than just academics. As each of RoMa’s bakers demonstrates day in and day out, the Princeton Way is about challenging yourself, working for others, and educating yourself about the past to better the future. Therefore, the next time you grab a perfectly golden brown danish on a rush across campus, take a moment to appreciate the “heart and soul” that goes into it. As Gattis expressed, “Every bite that you take … you take a piece of [the staff] with you. And that’s what food is all about.”
Gavin McLoughlin, a member of the class of 2028, is an associate editor for The Prospect. He can be reached at gm9041@princeton.edu.
Annika Plunkett is a staff writer for The Prospect and a member of the Newsletter team. She can be reached at ap3616@princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Junior star guard Xaivian Lee's agent announced via ESPN on Friday that he intends to enter the transfer portal. Lee will maintain his college eligibility and also test the National Basketball Association (NBA) draft process once more, doing so less than a year after withdrawing from the 2024 NBA Draft to return for his junior season at Princeton.
“These past three years at Princeton have been the most meaningful of my life,” Lee wrote in a statement posted to his Instagram story. “This place has shaped me as a person and challenged me. It gave me a platform to chase my dreams and now Princeton is a place I know I can always call home.”
Lee enters the portal with a “Do Not Contact” tag, a designation indicating that he is proactively managing his recruitment and does not wish to be approached by programs unless he or his agent initiates contact.
The decision comes after a season in which the Ivy League preseason favorite Tigers fell in the Ivy Madness semifinals and assistant coaches Brett MacConnell and Lawrence Rowley were not retained. MacConnell recruited Lee, who emerged as a standout following his rookie year.
"Xaivian shared his decision to enter the transfer portal," Head Coach Mitch Henderson ’98 wrote to the Daily Princetonian. "He's a tremendous member of this program and we support him in exploring what's best for him as a person, student and basketball player"
In two seasons as a starter, Lee has cemented himself as one of the best players ever to wear the Orange and Black. A two-time unanimous first team All-Ivy selection, this season Lee became the first Tiger to record a triple-double, after an 18 point, 13 rebound, and 10 assist performance against St Joe’s. Lee secured a second triple-double in the Tigers' final game of the regular season against Penn.
Across his sophomore and junior seasons, Lee consistently delivered. In the 2023–24 season, he averaged 17.1 points, 5.7 rebounds, and 3.7 assists per game, becoming one of just five underclassmen nationally to average at least 16 points, five rebounds, and three assists.
He followed that up with an even stronger junior campaign, posting 16.9 points, 6.1 rebounds, and 5.5 assists per game while leading the Ivy League in assist-to-turnover ratio. Lee notched two 30-point games in each of the past two seasons and hit game-winners against Columbia and Dartmouth.
“To my teammates — ya'll know what it is,” Lee wrote. "There's no other group I would've rather gone through the ups and downs with.”
While many expected Lee to declare for the NBA Draft after this season, transferring was thought to be less likely. The latest Bleacher Report mock draft projects him as the 52nd overall pick.
In the modern National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), the high levels of name, image, and likeness (NIL) compensation attracts successful student athletes to stay in college and forgo the pros for a year or two. Lee's decision represents this fundamental change in collegiate sports.
Lee immediately becomes one of the most sought-after players in the transfer portal and is expected to draw interest from high-major programs across the country. Given his recent success, Lee will receive significant NIL interest, with offers likely exceeding seven figures.
Without Lee, the Tigers lose their primary playmaker and leader, and the outlook for next season becomes far less clear. While players like sophomore guard Dalen Davis and junior forward Caden Pierce, a former Ivy League Player of the Year, are expected to take on larger roles, his departure could prompt others to re-evaluate their own futures with the program.
With Lee now in the portal, he is eligible to be contacted by other programs immediately. The spring transfer window closes on May 1, giving him a few weeks to weigh his options before making a decision.
Lee ended his statement by saying, “To the faculty, fans, and community — I wouldn't be much without you. Thanks for giving me the opportunity to represent you, I have nothing but love and gratitude for the school. I hope you continue to follow my story as I willl always do the same."
This story is breaking and will be updated as more details emerge.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and education director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Glendale, Calif.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is an open letter and reflects the authors’ views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
On Monday, the Center for Jewish Life (CJL) is hosting ex-Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett for a conversation on his political career. The event is ticketed, will be held at an off-campus location, and, to our knowledge, was only advertised to the CJL and Chabad listservs. While it is the CJL’s right to host Bennett, we, as Jewish students, disavow and spurn the rhetoric that he has spread across college campuses in the United States, and call on others to join us.
Between 2006 and 2008, Bennett served as Benjamin Netanyahu’s chief of staff, before serving as the head of the Yesha Council, the main political body representing Israeli settlers who live in occupied territory in violation of international law.
A year after becoming prime minister, Bennett dissolved parliament in a move that triggered Netanyahu’s reelection. Since then, Netanyahu has used his administration to oppose a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and –– in the aftermath of the Oct. 7 terror attacks — wage a campaign in Gaza that has killed tens of thousands of Palestinian men, women, and children. While Bennett has conveyed doubts about how the Netanyahu administration is waging that war, he still supports continued fighting above a ceasefire, only leading to more death and destruction.
In and out of office, Bennett has strongly argued against the creation of a Palestinian state, instead suggesting Israeli annexation of Area C in the West Bank — what he refers to as “Judea and Samaria,” biblical terms long associated with a strain of Israeli right-wing politics aiming to further oppress Palestinians and hinder the possibility of Palestinian statehood. He has said that “the most important thing is for Israel to build, build, build,” in reference to illegal West Bank settlements, and that he “will do everything in [his] power to oppose a Palestinian state.”
It is precisely rhetoric like Bennett’s that has increased state and settler violence against Palestinians in the West Bank.
Now, he’s saying that he will not include Arab parties in his government if his party, widely expected to be successful, wins in the October 2026 parliamentary elections. Approximately one-fifth of Israeli citizens are Arab — around two million people.
As progressive Jews, we oppose Naftali Bennett’s long encouragement of West Bank settlement and disregard of Palestinian autonomy. In the strongest possible terms, we reject encroachment on the West Bank that so often involves settler and state-backed violence toward Palestinians. We want to make it extremely clear that — even as the CJL, Chabad of Princeton, and program in Judaic studies cosponsor the upcoming event with Bennett — many Jews at Princeton strongly disagree with Bennett’s actions and statements.
The event is also remarkably closed. Again, to our knowledge, it was only disseminated to the CJL and Chabad listservs. Students must submit questions beforehand. We worry these questions may be filtered and that students may not be able to ask them themselves. Listening from outside of the event will be difficult — Bennett’s past events have been off-the-record, and we expect his Princeton appearance to be the same. Non-ticketed members of the student body will not even know where the event is being held, just that it will take place at an “off-campus location,” that ticketed members will not hear about until 24 hours before the event.
By limiting who attends these events and what topics can be discussed, Bennett avoids difficult but important conversations about his positions that could be started by Jewish and non-Jewish students alike who are not on the CJL or Chabad listserv. The framing of this event limits important discourse on a contentious issue on campus, precisely at a time where the exchange of ideas is so important.
Given the requirement for questions to be submitted beforehand, those who are attending will not be able to respond to what Bennett says over the course of the event and will have no idea of whether their submitted questions will even be asked in the first place.
We also worry that Bennett will use this event at Princeton as campaign material for his anticipated push to return to the Knesset, Israel’s parliament. The CJL’s flyer for the event acknowledges that “while Mr. Bennett has not yet announced his return to politics, he’s generally considered … the leading candidate to be the next Prime Minister of Israel.”
He has also appeared at Columbia and Yale, as well as Harvard — where he joked that if audience members were disruptive during the event, he would “just give them a pager,” referring to the September 2024 Israeli attacks in Lebanon where the Israelis detonated thousands of handheld pagers used by the militant group Hezbollah.
By using these events to talk about his life in business at Harvard or his return to politics here at Princeton, Bennett is drumming up diaspora support to advance his political aims of further subjugating Palestinians. Bennett seems to be starting his campaign trail on the campuses of U.S. colleges and universities. We refuse to be a stomping ground for his racist rhetoric and violent policies: As Jews and University affiliates, we write to say this invitation and endorsement of Bennett is not in our name.
Ultimately, it is important for us — as Jewish people — to stand against Naftali Bennett. We see the structure of this event as limiting free speech and civil discourse surrounding his presence. We don’t expect there to be space for dissent in Bennett’s talk next week, so consider this letter us making our own space: We dissent. We, the undersigned, object to Bennett’s threats of violence against students, history of actions normalizing inequality and violence toward Palestinians, and encouragement of illegal settlements in the West Bank. We urge our fellow Jewish students and other members of our campus community to join us.
Elena Eiss is a first-year from Pittsburgh, Pa., and Assistant Opinion Editor Charlie Yale is a first-year from Omaha, Neb. Both are leaders of the Alliance of Jewish Progressives.
Correction: The version of this open letter circulated for signatures said that the email promoting the lecture was only sent to the CJL listserv. In fact, it was also sent to the Chabad listserv.
Signed,
Emanuelle Sippy ’25
Martin Mastnak ’25
Ben Gelman ’23
Dylan Shapiro ’23
Hannah Gabelnick ’26
Bryce Springfield ’25
Katie Heinzer ’22
Jacob Neis GS, Classics
Mohamed El Hedi Bahri GS ’23, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Dane Lester ’28
Tom Abi Samra GS, Near Eastern Studies
Patrick Jaojoco GS, Architecture
Isaac Barsoum ’28
Aedan Fraley ’27
Max Weiss, Professor of History
Alan Plotz ’25
Jonathan Mandel GS, Art and Archaeology
Johana Lara ’25
Jo Goldman ’25
Sakura Price ’23
Annabelle Luo ’28
Curtis Deutsch, Professor of Geosciences and the High Meadows Environmental Institute
Aminah Aliu ’25
Emer Kilgallon ’25
Laurence Drayton ’26
Jeremy Zullow ’17
Jim LaRegina, Graduate/Undergraduate Administrator, Near Eastern Studies
Adam B. Sanders ’25
Josh Isaacs GS, Geosciences
Rio Baran ’25
Emmett Weisz ’27
Holly Bushman GS, Architecture
Narges Anzali ’28
Chris Stone GS ’02, Near Eastern Studies
Masha Musthafa ’25
Zahid Chaudhary, Associate Professor of English
Yahya Habib ’26
Nicholas Urbati ’25
Ariel Munczek Edelman GS, School of Public and International Affairs
Brandon Matthew Gauthier ’25
Connie Gong ’25
Katie Rohrbaugh ’24
Alliyah Gregory ’25
Gabby Styris ’28
Leila Granier ’26
Carter Lang ’27
Collin Guedel ’26
Alex Chauncey-Heine ’24
Blue Carlsson ’25
Kyrah Potter ’25
Georgia Martin ’27
Lucy Shea ’27
Rowan Johnson ’27
Jacob Jackson ’26
Lisa Clemans-Cope ’94
Christian Bischoff, GS, English
Matthew Mariman, Library Collections Specialist V, Princeton University Library
Sam Yamashita ’26
Sofia Menemenlis GS, Atmospheric and Oceanic Studies
Ana Sanchez-Martinez ’26
Pyo Tarapi ’28
Dana Benavides ’28
Yousuf Abdelfatah GS, Politics
Thomas Verrill ’25
Haley Choueiri ’25
Adham Ibrahim ’27
Salil Sharma, Postdoctoral Research Associate, Politics
Sophia Vernon ’27
Zoe Daly ’28
Callisto Lim ’28
Irene Kim ’28
Andrew Duke ’25
Angela Brown GS, Art and Archaeology
Noah Barkan ’28
Zachariah Sippy ’23
Ryan Oet GS, Computer Science
Jack Toubes ’25
Christian Salazar ’25
Salma Alhsni ’28
Yushra Guffer ’26
Valerie Neske ’25
Gyan Prakash, Dayton-Stockton Professor of History
Anha Khan ’26
Abigail Leibowitz ’26
Alex Norbrook ’26
Pria G. Jackson GS, Classics
Rachael Schnurr GS, History
Abdullah Rizvi ’27
Matt Heinle GS, Geosciences
Fatima Diallo ’25
Pedro Espino, Research Software Engineer II, Geosciences
Qiqi Yang GS, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Angie Rabih ’25
Amina Anowara ’25
Fawzia Afzal-Khan, Visiting Professor of Gender and Sexuality Studies
Tobias Rosen GS, Art and Archaeology
Fay Slakey GS, Comparative Literature
Meredith Martin, Professor of English
Hal Foster ’77, Townsend Martin, Class of 1917, Professor of Art and Archaeology
Lara Harb, Associate Professor of Near Eastern Studies
Eleanor Wright ’28
V. Mitch McEwen, Assistant Professor of Architecture
Molly Greene, Professor of History and Hellenic Studies
Quentin Colón Roosevelt ’27
Chaya Holch ’23
Nipuna Ginige ’26
Poorvi Bellur GS, History
Elena Milliken ’26
Aron Wander ’15
Tehseen Thaver, Assistant Professor of Religion
Khari Franklin ’24
Luz Victoria Simon Jasso ’24
Theodore Gross ’24
Victoria Koretsky ’26
Maya Rosen ’17
Lucy Carlin ’28
Cassie Eng ’25
Claire Nuchtern ’15
Ardon Shorr, Lecturer in the Princeton Writing Program
Kaleb Boyd ’24
Ibrahim Bata ’26
Nadine Lombardo-Han GS ’22, School of Public and International Affairs
April Alliston, Professor of Comparative Literature
Daniel Garber, A. Watson Armour III University Professor of Philosophy
Noura Shoukfeh ’25
Jabari Lawrence GS, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Wilson Conn ’25
Raghav Pradhan ’28
Nate Howard ’25
Sara Ryave ’24
Michelle Lerner ’93
Kristin Nagy ’27
Jessica Ng, Postdoctoral Research Associate, High Meadows Environmental Institute
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.After an hour-and-a-half of discussing how to get into the film industry with prospective students, Josh Pate, co-creator, writer, and executive producer of the popular Netflix show “Outer Banks” (OBX), told The Daily Princetonian, “Poor bastards … God, it’s hard.”
Last Wednesday, Princeton Pictures (PPic), a University student group that produces student short films, hosted Pate for a special Q&A event, where he shared his experience working in the film industry. Aside from OBX, Pate is known for his work on “The Grave,” “Deceiver,” “Good vs. Evil,” and “Surface,” and his new show, “The Runarounds,” is expected to premier sometime this year on Amazon Prime.
President of PPic Connor Odom ’26 and member Jeremy Yun ’25 hosted the event. About 50 students had gathered in McCosh 10 to hear Pate speak.
One thing Pate discussed was the influx of Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) in the filmmaking industry and how it will lower production costs.
“Most of the job is in front of a computer, because you’re either writing or editing,” Pate explained. “Two thirds of it [producing a film or TV show] is writing and editing. I think AI is going to take a chunk out of the production wings and affect everything.”
According to Pate, many of the people who currently write and edit scripts are lacking the proper skill to work with innovative filmmakers. He advised that filmmakers should lean into the use of AI to compensate for the lack of skill without entirely getting rid of the workforce.
“The people that could do it the old fashioned-way are kind of useless, and I’m dealing with a lot of these guys,” Pate said. “So let’s quit making regular movies and embrace AI at the same time.”
AI also assists in editing shots, including making shots look bigger and smoother.
“One of the films I’m working on, we’re looking at trying to rotoscope an aspect of the shot and using AI to make that smoother, and use the motion tracking and after effects, which, a couple years ago, we would not be able to,” Pate said.
He explained that having an AI “techie” is only an added benefit to a production team. “It makes it [editing] a lot easier,” Pate said.
Another thing Pate discussed was the importance of producing one’s own Indie film as the best way to break into the industry.
“Do you want to be on the artist side or the business side? If you want to be on the business side, go work for Warner Brothers. If you want to be an artist, go do it,” Pate said.
“Are you gonna make a movie about being a Creative Artists Agency (CAA) assistant?” Pate said. “It’s better if you go join the Merchant Marines who get abducted in Venezuela — then you actually have a story to tell. So, that’s the biggest thing as writers: What do you have to write about?”
Pate cited his own experience of driving around the surrounding neighborhoods for material. “When I was younger, I used to drive … everywhere. I would just go to the worst neighborhoods and just try to go to, like, underbellies of culture as, like, an anthropologist, just for material.”
As a filmmaker creates more material and begins to form a production team, Pate shared the importance of directing style. “Your leadership style has to be an authentic expression of who you really are,” he said.
Odom explained to the ‘Prince’ that much of Pate’s advice deviates from traditional advice given by film industry professionals. Odom previously worked as a commercial director for ABC Network and CW.
One of these pieces of advice was Pate’s suggestion that aspiring filmmakers should not devote time to producing short films.
“I was taught that to make a feature film, you have to do a short film first,” Odom explained. “So to hear from someone who’s produced so much successful work, who’s probably produced the most watched show on Netflix, to say, ‘short films really aren’t that important, go make a feature film, go write a feature screenplay or a pilot script’ is just not what I was expecting to hear. That was a really great insight.”
Yun, who had been casted in Pate’s new show “The Runarounds,” praised Pate’s ability to speak to a younger audience.
“It’s truly hard to speak to young generations over a period of as long a career he’s had, and I think that he’s been able to keep delivering on successful stuff that really speaks to his insight in storytelling, into young minds,” Yun explained. “I’m grateful to have been part of it.”
Meredith Sneed ’27, a member of PPic and a contributing Prospect writer, shared Yun’s sentiment about Pate being an influential filmmaker in the industry.
“It’s definitely been cool to hear everyone’s excitement about getting a look into how it [filmmaking] all works, because it [OBX] is such a defining show in our generation.”
Odom believes that the event highlighted a more practical approach to filmmaking than is generally seen.
“A lot of events based around industries are very trivial here, are very surface level, and don’t get to the nuts and bolts,” Odom explained. “My whole goal with moderating this was to ask some really hard questions about how to break in, what actually happens in the industry, and I think we were able to achieve that.”
Aside from the screenwriter of John Wick, Pate has been the most high-profile creator that PPic has hosted so far, according to Odom. Pate’s son, Walker, is currently a member of the Class of 2028.
“So many young people want to go into the arts, and on some level … it has to be a calling, like you’re a priest, because you’re going to be tested,” Pate told the ‘Prince.’ “You just want to make sure you’re in it for the long haul and not just because ‘I want to, it’s fun for a minute.’”
Luke Grippo is a contributing writer for The Prospect. He is from South Jersey, and loves theater and music. He is also a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.You would think that it would be hard to feel nostalgic for a time during which you weren’t even alive, yet that is exactly what I felt when I stepped into the Princeton Record Exchange last Saturday afternoon. Whether it be explosively colorful shelves lining every available surface, bright genre tags hanging from the ceiling, large artist posters lining whatever wall space is out of customer reach, or the sticker-bombed checkout counter, the inside of this seemingly inconspicuous white building is overstimulating in the best way possible.
Established in 1980 by Barry Weisfeld, an avid record collector who had previously been selling out of the back of his van, the Princeton Record Exchange holds a rotating selection of over 100,000 LPs, CDs, and DVDs across a multitude of genres, many of which are on display for customers to spend a lazy weekend afternoon sifting through.
Over its four and a half decades of establishment in downtown Princeton, the store has involved itself with the community via its open offer to buy out people’s collections of physical media at a reasonable price. For all the newly pressed LPs and freshly delivered CDs that clutter the “New Releases” shelves, an equal number of aging collectors’ items wait for a passionate buyer to dust them off. As someone passionate about not only music itself, but also its culture and fanbase, I felt that the store’s aisles are a haven for music lovers among the Princeton community.
In this day and age, the purchase of physical media may seem like a relic of the past — a mere symbolic, and often deeply personal, gesture of appreciation to your favorite artists. Yet, I still had a hard time walking through the narrow, album-lined aisles without bumping into someone eagerly clutching an LP or noticing a familiar cover at the back of the row.
To my surprise, the store was bustling that Saturday afternoon. As I looked around, I couldn’t help but notice the diversity of customers in every genre’s corner in the store. From elderly couples picking out their childhood classics to young teens rummaging through the new releases of their favorite local artists, it seemed everyone had something in store for them as they flipped through the alphabetized stacks.
After asking around, I found out that that day’s customer base was a relatively even mix of shoppers from Princeton and the surrounding area, as well as visitors from all along the East Coast. Whereas the presence of people who grew up in the LP era was to be expected, young adults seemed to be equally invested in browsing or shopping for such physical media. Even long after they had become obsolete, these records still incite a certain passion among newer generations.
“I think it’s like dragons. You want to see what you own. You like looking up at your wall and seeing all the art and everything,” said Alana, a 29-year-old from New Jersey.
“A lot of the music that I have found isn’t available on all streaming platforms, just for some reason or another,” added Devin, an electrical engineering student in New York and hip-hop enthusiast.
With much of the same fire in their eyes, store veterans from the local community continue to pay frequent visits to check out the store’s ever-evolving stock. A local jazz enthusiast, Dan, says he’s “here at least once a week for the last 24 years.”
It is the result of this vibrant Princeton community that the Record Exchange, despite the advent of the digital age, continues to thrive 35 years down the line. As the store’s collection keeps expanding, student musicians and music enthusiasts alike can catch a snippet of music history every time they take a trip to Nassau Street. One does not even have to make a purchase to get a meaningful experience from a visit to the Princeton Record Exchange. Whether you want to discover new music, explore regional scenes, or look at vintage singles, the store surely has something to captivate you.
Don’t rule out the possibility of a purchase entirely, however, as exciting finds prove to be commonplace among the store’s regulars. “Well, there was a record that I’ve looked for for 30 years, that I just found a few weeks ago from Doug Sahm … And so, you know, 30 years, to really be looking for something, and to suddenly have it up here in front of you is exciting,” Dan reflects.
As more students begin to incorporate ventures to the store into their lives, it continues to solidify itself as a crucial component of Princeton’s musical community.
“I think it’s something the Princeton community cherishes as well. It surprises me how often I see people carrying the yellow PREX tote bag around … but I guess people have also found the enjoyment in owning physical music that I feel, and that’s great,” commented Stanley Kong ’26, a longtime visitor of the store. Something as simple as the store’s bright and recognizable bags can reveal a web of shared passion that connects students across all majors and corners of campus.
Whether you plan on supporting the continued trade and sale of physical music, finding a rare record from your favorite obscure artist, learning about music history from its most authentic form, or seeing who else on campus might share your love for the art-form, I believe the Princeton Record Exchange to be a must-see local community attraction.
Eric Mohorea is a contributing writer for The Prospect and a member of the Class of 2028. He can be reached at em4523[at]princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections@dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.A walkout, a fire alarm, and a group singing the Israeli national anthem.
A speaker event with former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett on Monday was interrupted at various points, with approximately 20 protesters walking out of the event, an extended disruption by an individual who does not appear to have an affiliation with Princeton in the middle, a subsequent fire alarm interruption, singing by the event’s attendees at the end, and yelling between protesters and event attendees in the courtyard after.
The off-the-record event, which was hosted by the Center of Jewish Life (CJL) and co-sponsored by the School of Public and International Affairs, the Program in Judaic Studies, Scharf Family Chabad House of Princeton, and the Mamdouha S. Bobst Center for Peace and Justice, was held in McCosh 10. Rabbi Gil Steinlauf ’91, the director of the CJL, moderated the discussion. Approximately 200 students, faculty, and other community members were in attendance.
Outside the building, about 200 pro-Palestine protesters chanted, screamed and banged on drums in a display of their dissatisfaction at the decision to host the former Israeli prime minister. The chants of protestors outside were audible inside the lecture hall throughout the talk, and reached as far as Firestone Library and the Architecture Building.
Steinlauf welcomed former Prime Minister of Israel Naftali Bennett to the stage shortly after 7:30 p.m. Before declaring that the event was off-the-record, Steinlauf briefly read through Princeton’s regulations on free speech and warned that disrupters would be removed from the event and may face sanctions.
After 20 minutes, about 20 demonstrators stood up and began chanting “Naftali Bennett, you can’t hide, we charge you with genocide.” They promptly walked out of the room to join the protest outside, followed out of the lecture hall by a free speech coordinator, a University staff member charged with enforcing regulations around protests. Outside, they were greeted with cheers from the demonstrators gathered in the courtyard.
A few minutes after, Sayel Kayed, a man sitting near the front, stood and began shouting at Bennett, quoting civilian death tolls in Gaza: “15,000 children killed, what do you say to that?” Kayed does not appear to have any connection to Princeton, and posted about the disruption on his Instagram.
Kayed — accompanied by a second individual videoing the disruption — continued shouting at Bennett for two minutes before he walked out, followed by Public Safety (PSafe) officers, a free speech coordinator, and Dean Jarrett Fisher, who often handles free speech-related events. Much of the audience applauded as Bennett delivered a rebuttal to Kayed.
“Instead of whining for the past 80 years and building your own future, you have focused on killing the Jews. It’s time the Palestinians stopped whining,” Bennett said, according to a video of the exchange posted on social media.
Alexandra Orbuch ’25, who was in attendance, expressed frustration that free speech facilitators had not intervened quickly enough in the incident. “They informed him that he was violating policy, but again, didn’t really lay a hand on him, didn’t do anything, and then escorted him out after he had disrupted the event for quite a while,” she told the ‘Prince.’
At 8:06 p.m., the fire alarm went off in McCosh and Dickinson Halls. Students and community members looked around in confusion before turning their attention to PSafe officers in the back of the hall for guidance. Minutes of confusion passed before it became clear that event attendees would not be evacuated from the building.
The University was unable to provide comment on the circumstances of the fire alarm before publication, although some attendees speculated it had been pulled by a protester.
Rabbi Eitan Webb then began singing “Kol Ha’olam Kulo Gesher Tzar Me’od” (The whole world is a very narrow bridge) and was joined by many of the event’s attendees, many of whom stood up from their seats and gathered around the stage. After the fire alarm was shut off at 8:17 p.m., attendees then sung Hatikvah — the national anthem of Israel — before the event concluded.
Steinlauf reacted to the disruptions that took place in a written statement to the ‘Prince,’ reiterating the Center for Jewish Life’s commitment to open dialogue and civil discourse in the face of differing viewpoints.
“The conversation with Prime Minister Bennett proceeded meaningfully, and the final disruption was met not with chaos, but with spontaneous singing, dancing, and a sense of unity in the room,” he wrote.
Also in attendance was Judah Guggenheim ’25, who led the opposition to last fall’s Undergraduate Student Government (USG) referendum calling for the University to divest from companies involved in weapons manufacturing. He provided The Daily Princetonian with a written statement of his reaction to the disruption.
“It saddens me that the disrupters showed no sense of nuance. They shouted and pulled the fire alarm rather than listening to [Bennett] be asked and respond to difficult questions,” he wrote.
Other attendees also speculated that a protester had intentionally pulled the fire alarm.
Maddy Denker ’27, a member of J Street U, expressed disappointment over what she characterized as Bennett’s misappropriation of Jewish liturgy. “The statements made by Bennett do not represent the beliefs of all Jewish students and they do not represent J Street U’s pro-peace mission,” she wrote. About five J Street U members donned anti-occupation t-shirts and brought signage to the event.
PSafe presence in the area surrounding McCosh hall was notable, with officers guarding every entrance of McCosh and Dickinson Halls and additional officers stationed throughout the area around the event. Two fences spanning the length of McCosh courtyard were set up with a few feet between then, creating a “buffer zone” between the north side of McCosh courtyard and McCosh 10.
After rallying at Nassau Hall around 7 p.m., the protesters marched across campus to the location of the event. Positioning themselves facing a large window that looks into McCosh 10, protesters chanted continuously from 7:10 through the end of the event. Among their chants were cries of “shame,” directed at event attendees. At points during the event, a protester directed a bright flashlight into the window of McCosh 10.
The protest promotion highlighted a 2013 quote from Bennett that “I already killed lots of Arabs in my life, and there is absolutely no problem with that,” a comment a Bennett spokesperson said at the time was misinterpreted. Bennett, a right-wing figure in Israel, recently announced his return to politics.
When attendees left the event, the protesters again broke out into calls of “shame.”
Around 20 people coming out of the event then gathered along the McCosh 10 side of the buffer zone fence, and some protesters and attendees got into verbal confrontations, with individuals on both sides of the fence hurling charged insults and accusations. The environment was notably more tense than previous protests, with arguments between protesters and attendees lasting for over 30 minutes following the event.
A few protesters breached the fence and entered the buffer zone, prompting security personnel and PSafe officers to instruct the protesters to back up. When protesters did not comply, one officer entered into the crowd and pushed them back. That officer was then pulled back by another after the crowd erupted in angry shouts. Protesters remained in the buffer zone for some time before moving back behind the fence.
The University was unable to provide comment on the circumstances of the PSafe incident before publication.
While many of the protesters were students and community members, some were from outside groups. Several members of Neturei Karta International, an anti-zionist Haredi Jewish organization, marched alongside protesters with signs decrying the ongoing conflict in Gaza. Rabbi Dovid Feldman, part of Neturei Karta, spoke with the ‘Prince’ to explain why they were there.
“If we truly want to see a better future, we must address the root cause. We have to address the occupation. We have to stop the occupation in its entirety, for the sake of the oppressed Palestinian people who deserve freedom, and for the sake of the Jewish people who deserve safety and security, all of us deserve a better future,” he said.
Also in attendance was Mahmoud Desouky, who spoke over the megaphone. Desouky is a graduate from Rutgers University and is running for N.J. State Assembly in the 16th District, which he discussed in his speech to the crowd.
“This is the time for change,” Desouky said.
The protest dissipated around 9 p.m., around half an hour after the event ended.
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Pensacola, Fla. and typically covers community activism, the state of higher education, and construction and architecture.
Devon Rudolph is an associate News editor and staff Sports writer for the ‘Prince.’ She is from northern Virginia and typically covers student life and USG.
Kian Petlin is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Notables including Microsoft president Brad Smith ’81, New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy, and University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 officially cut the ribbon on the New Jersey AI Hub on Thursday, March 27.
The AI Hub was initially announced in December 2023 as a partnership between the University and the state, before Microsoft and CoreWeave were officially revealed as additional founding partners in January. The project aims to develop generative AI innovation in New Jersey and reinvigorate the state’s industrial goals.
“The NJ AI Hub provides an extraordinary opportunity to advance our teaching and research mission and to pursue two of the University’s highest strategic priorities: advancing AI innovation and research; and cultivating a thriving regional ecosystem,” Eisgruber said.
He also highlighted the University’s planned inclusion of other universities in the hub.
“I’m especially pleased that the hub’s activities will attract and leverage talent from New Jersey’s outstanding colleges and universities for Princeton,” he added.
The AI Hub has promised much in the 18 months since its inception, although key personnel are still yet to be determined. The University and the other founders are currently looking for an executive director, and other hiring will progress when the corporate partners move into the newly opened physical space.
Vice President and Secretary of the University Hilary Parker ’01 described the hub’s lofty goals.
“The establishment of this hub could have a transformative impact on our nation,” she said. “Cultivating a thriving regional ecosystem is among the University’s highest strategic priorities.”
Smith added to this sentiment, saying, “It’s not only going to build on this great innovation and the academic research at places like Princeton and Rutgers, but I think it will create new opportunities for people across New Jersey.”
“This public-private partnership will support and drive economic opportunity for the state and greater region for decades to come,” Smith explained in a post on X following the event.
In addition to CoreWeave, Smith said that Microsoft will be bringing their TechSpark program to help the AI Hub with “workforce development.” TechSpark currently has 12 other locations across the country.
Corey Sanders ’04, Senior Vice President of Strategy for CoreWeave and visiting lecturer in the computer science department at the University, said the AI Hub will offer opportunities to startup companies and entrepreneurs.
“New Jersey’s AI hub will accelerate the career journeys for so many promising stars in the state who are looking for that opportunity to develop their technical skills and build upon those technical, innovative ideas, and collectively, we in this room are letting them know they can do it right here in the state,” he said. Sanders previously told The Daily Princetonian that he is hoping to offer a collection of internships to University students this summer.
Following the remarks, the speakers, joined by Senior Director of TechSpark Mike Egan and University Provost Jennifer Rexford, cut the ribbon. Attendees were then offered a tour of the 6,600 square-foot space, located close to Route One and about a half-hour walk from campus.
Smith praised the project, which was announced in December 2023, as operating on a speedy timeline.
“I don’t know that there’s been this fast action since George Washington crossed the Delaware and managed to win two battles in Trenton and Princeton, in a single week,” he said.
Luke Grippo is a senior News writer and Features contributor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including Undergraduate Student Government, the Council of the Princeton University Community, and institutional legacy.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.The Davis International Center (Davis IC), Princeton’s center for international students and scholars, advised non-U.S. citizens at Princeton to carry their I-94 forms and “exercise caution” with regards to international travel, in an email sent on Friday. The email also warned students to “be mindful that electronic devices are subject to search when entering the US,” including social media activity.
The I-94 form, also known as an Arrival-Departure Record Card, is a form used by U.S. Customs and Border Protection to track the arrival and departure of non-citizens, and it contains proof of legal entry and allowed stay time. The document is given to all holders of sponsored visas, but not green card holders.
The advice comes the same day as new U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) guidance, which reflects a Jan. 20 executive order from President Donald Trump requiring all non-citizens 14 years or older to register their status with the government. According to USCIS, “Once an alien has registered and appeared for fingerprinting (unless waived), DHS will issue evidence of registration, which aliens over the age of 18 must carry and keep in their personal possession at all times.”
According to the email from the Davis IC, “it appears that students and scholars [on nonimmigrant visas] should already be considered ‘registered’ by virtue of admission to the U.S. and issuance of an I-94,” but the details of the registration process currently remain unclear.
“We are reviewing the new registration process, and we hope that the government will clarify the details in the coming weeks,” the email reads.
It is also unknown at this time if or how the registration requirement will affect green card holders.
This message is the first piece of concrete advice sent to all international members of the University community at Princeton, and comes as the Trump administration takes a hardline against immigration that has caused much fear and uncertainty on college campuses nationwide.
Earlier this week, a French scientist was detained upon entry to the U.S. after messages critical of the administration were found in his phone. Additionally, Mahmoud Khalil, a recent graduate of Columbia University and green-card holder, was arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement due to being considered a threat to national security for his role in Columbia’s pro-Palestine protests. At Cornell, a student from Gambia was asked by ICE to turn himself in for leading pro-Palestine protests.
On a global scale, countries are updating their travel advisories to reflect changes in U.S. policy. Following the detention of several German nationals, German authorities updated its travel advisory to the United States. The United Kingdom has also revised its travel guidance in the past several weeks for any travelers planning to visit the U.S.
In January, as other schools advised students to return before Trump’s inauguration, the Davis IC issued no such warning. Davis IC Director Albert Rivera did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The email ended with notice of virtual attorney sessions, open to all, that the Davis IC is hosting on March 26. “Attorney Session: An Update on U.S. Immigration Issues” will be held at 12:30 p.m., and “Immigration Do’s and Don’ts & How to Prepare” at 8 p.m.
Christopher Bao is a head News editor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Princeton, N.J. and typically covers town politics and life.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
I am writing in my personal capacity as the former President of the Interclub Council to give the University some feedback on an important matter they are currently reviewing. From late 2023 to early 2024, the University hired an outside consulting firm, Huron Consulting Group, to examine the housing and dining undergraduate experience. Last summer, the Huron Group quietly released a 25-page report detailing their findings. The report is as opaque with its methodology as it is sweeping in the scope of its recommendations, the most extreme of which is a proposal on the last page to require all students who reside on campus to purchase a campus dining meal plan — including juniors and seniors currently on an eating club contract.
This course of action would be harmful to the undergraduate experience and poses an existential threat to the eating clubs, potentially forcing many into financial ruin. If implemented, the report’s recommendation would sever past and present generations of Princetonians from their unique and tight-knit communities, reverse decades of progress towards diversity in the clubs, and throw the undergraduate dining system into disarray. I respectfully call on the administration to disavow this course of action, since the relationship between the University and the eating clubs is ultimately one of mutual benefit.
The eating clubs play a vital role in nurturing Princeton’s undergraduate and alumni communities. The Huron Report itself emphasized that “students who are a part of [an] eating club are more satisfied than those who identify as Independent or have selected a meal plan.” The eating clubs provide a convenient location to eat, as well as a vibrant campus social scene with robust safety measures, including hiring professional bouncers, running SHARE training for members, partnering with PSafe, and defining policies around after-dark events. The rich and longstanding history of the eating clubs also helps members feel a sense of investment in a beloved campus tradition. There’s a reason Princeton has the most loyal alumni in the Ivy League — long after graduation, students who were in eating clubs have a lifelong home on campus to come back to.
However, requiring all juniors and seniors to purchase a campus dining meal plan would threaten these benefits. Few Princetonians would be able to afford both their eating club fees and a campus meal plan, so requiring such a plan is tantamount to forcing most students to give up their eating club memberships. Notably, the Huron Report does not recommend that the University readjust their increased food budget for juniors and seniors to be higher, which could shield students on financial aid from the worst of the effects. With a decimated pool of potential members, most if not all eating clubs would simply not be able to continue operation — especially in the face of sky-high property taxes, multiple forms of insurance, and rising inflation in the food industry.
The report is, at the moment, a recommendation. But the stakes are high. Every time in the past a club has closed on the Street has been a heartbreaking experience for its undergraduate and alumni members. In particular, stripping alumni of their “home away from home” at Princeton would lessen their connection to campus and the University. According to the Huron Report itself, “Alumni eating club members expressed a high degree of affinity for their club, describing it as a defining element of the residential experience. The eating clubs were cited as motivators for alumni to return to campus.” This is due in no small part to the fiercely proud and tight-knit communities we are able to form at the eating clubs, which remain near and dear to alumni hearts even decades after they graduate.
Furthermore, following the Huron Report’s recommendation would reverse decades of painstaking and fruitful progress on eating club diversity. The eating clubs today are more diverse in terms of race, gender, and socioeconomic background than they have ever been before. But if all students were required to purchase a campus dining plan, only the most wealthy and privileged Princetonians would be able to afford an eating club membership on top of it. Instead of being able to serve large majorities of Princeton’s student population, the clubs would only be able to cater to the “one percent,” turning into regressive and anachronistic versions of themselves that nobody, especially the current and increasingly diverse membership of the clubs, wants them to be.
Lastly, requiring all juniors and seniors to purchase campus dining plans would negatively impact the general undergraduate dining experience, including first-years and sophomores, as well as the students who choose to remain on a dining hall plan in their upperclass years. The current dining hall options are already crowded, with long lines winding through the serveries and teeming with unfamiliar faces. Jamming several thousand additional juniors and seniors into an already overburdened and crowded campus dining system would exacerbate these issues, no matter how many gleaming new dining halls rise at Hobson or other farther locations.
Both of us, the University and the eating clubs, ultimately share the same goal: making the undergraduate experience as enriching and rewarding as possible and fostering an enthusiastic and involved alumni community. Adopting the Huron Report’s recommendation to force every student to purchase a campus dining meal plan, even if they have another full meal plan, would be counterproductive to that mutual goal. It would take away one of the most beloved Princeton traditions, reversing decades of progress and worsening the Princeton experience for all students, regardless of whether they participate in an eating club. I am, respectfully, offering my advice to the University to reject this ill-conceived recommendation.
Vincent Jiang ’25 is the President Emeritus of the Interclub Council, the organization composed of the eleven undergraduate eating club presidents at Princeton University. He can be reached at vincentjiang[at]princeton.edu.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.In two unanimous 7–0 votes on March 27, the Municipality of Princeton’s Zoning Board of Adjustment approved construction developments for Tower Club and Charter Club.
Tower Club’s renovations will include installing an elevator to improve accessibility and comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards, along with grading improvements in the parking area. Charter Club also plans to add ADA-compliant pathways and an elevator.
The Tower application was presented by Ryan Kennedy from the law firm Stevens. Additional representatives on behalf of the application included John Hasson, an architect from 3GHC Architecture, Sameh Wali, a project manager at Dynamic Engineering, and Jim Hayes, the Tower Club’s General Manager.
This project has been in the works for years, with the first proposal coming to the Princeton Zoning Board of Adjustment on Oct. 25, 2022. This proposal sparked concerns, however, as the trees around Tower would be problematic for the four proposed parking spots.
Two parts of the plan changed in response: There are now two parking spots in the updated proposal, and the roots of the tree have been accounted for by pulling back the asphalt located near the tree.
Historic Preservation Commission (HPC) Officer Elizabeth Kim said that “with this change, I think the HPC would completely support this design.”
Hasson specifically explained how the “elevator will be on the west side of the property and will provide full accessibility to the basement, first floor, and second floor. She lastly added that the elevator’s exterior will be “plaid with the brick veneer [of the Tower Club]” in addition to the structure having a “nice hip roof,” which features four sides that slope downwards from the peak.
Future additions to Tower Club are in development, but Kennedy states that “Ultimately, we [the management of the project] just don’t think we’re there yet with something that makes sense for the applicant and addresses all the comments. So our desire is just to proceed with the ADA-approved Tower.”
The elevator is the first key project, but more developments to Tower Club are to come.
Renovations for Charter aim to make the club ADA-compliant by adding a pathway, ramp, elevator, and accessible bathrooms. The project will also expand floor space to accommodate servery equipment and additional dining tables, along with renovations to the Great Hall.
On behalf of the club, Charter Board of Trustees member Robert Ridolfi ’70, Club Manager Holly Trump, engineer Russ Smith, and Ford 3 partner Moira McClintock were present. Representatives noted that expansion is necessary to accommodate the increasing number of students in Charter.
“We’re just trying to expand enough to create more dining space and servery space for our membership as it is now a little bit tight,” Trump said in her testimony. According to Trump, Charter is currently “crunched” in terms of dining space, with the main foyer and other dining rooms at full capacity.
Both McClintock and Trump emphasized the importance of maintaining the building’s historical integrity during the renovation process. Charter’s architects, McClintock explained, are trying to “work as much as possible with existing architecture.”
“I have over 4,500 alumni, as well as present members, that are counting on me [to] make sure that we still keep to the entire history, as well as their stories,” Trump added.
“I think the proposed modifications to the house are very well done and in keeping with the original character of the building itself,” Ridolfi said. Princeton’s HPC unanimously supported the application last week, with Kim reiterating in the zoning meeting that Charter did a “sensitive job designing, selecting the material, and placement of all the components of the application.”
Both Tower’s and Charter’s renovations were officially approved.
Sena Chang is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ She typically covers campus and community activism, the state of higher education, and alumni news.
Isaac Bernstein is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’ From Pittsburgh, Penn., he most commonly covers new academic departments and majors, progressions in faculty research and pursuits, and the most recent happenings of Princeton’s alumni.
Please direct any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the authors’ views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
Columbia University appears to have given in to the government’s anti-constitutional  and autocratic attack on free speech and the rule of law. In the face of Project 2025-inspired demands from the Trump administration, Columbia expelled students and revoked degrees. On Friday, they announced further concessions, including, most concerningly to us, the removal of academic self-governance from the Department of Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies.
After all of this, the restoration of $400 million in research grants, including lifesaving clinical trials and training grants for postdocs and students, is still not guaranteed. And as President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 has aptly put it, “once you make concessions once, it’s hard not to make them again.”
It may be easy to label Columbia’s actions as capitulation. However, when the full force of the U.S. government is set against any single institution, resistance is difficult.
But it’s not just Columbia. Princeton, along with 59 others, is on a list of universities targeted by the administration. President Eisgruber has started the pushback, standing up on behalf of academic freedom and saying that the Trump administration is attacking higher education. Professors, students, other universities, and the public should join him: When targeting one institution is a bald attempt to divide and conquer, as is the case with Columbia, it is essential for a coalition or group of institutions and individuals to stand up together.
Threats to university research directly affect student opportunity. Here at Princeton, students can work with world-class scientists and scholars, opening gateways to medical and graduate schools. If labs close, that opportunity shrinks: Students will have fewer opportunities to do research and build their futures.
The recent hiring freeze here at Princeton and at peer institutions such as Harvard and Penn is an early warning sign. Elsewhere, graduate schools are rescinding offers to college seniors. The damage threatens to encompass all fields including social sciences, engineering, and humanities, devaluing the degrees all students are working toward.
Do not be fooled by those who wish to use impassioned debates within higher education as a means of driving us apart. Last year Congressional Republicans used the war in Gaza and the ensuing student protests as a wedge. Now, inspired by strategists like Christopher Rufo, the administration is going after programs with words like “diversity.” They will continue to look for points of legitimate disagreement, then lean into those points to advance autocracy.
Some values transcend ideology or party. Colleges and universities have been a pillar of American strength throughout Democratic and Republican governments over the last hundred years. That pillar is now under threat as part of a broader attack on a law-based society, and as part of a larger assault on institutions, from Social Security to flight safety.
As Lee Bollinger, former president of Columbia and the University of Michigan, has put it, we are in the midst of an authoritarian takeover. In the midst of this, standing up for higher education is part of a larger defense of the whole nation’s well-being and the rules-based system that has allowed the nation to prosper.
Some may be apprehensive of speaking out in isolation. However, there is no reward for obeying in advance. A successful response requires action, together. In Erica Chenoweth and Maria J. Stephan’s work on nonviolent movements around the world, they found that if a movement spreads to even a few percent of the population, success becomes more likely than not. Furthermore, there are network effects: 10 times as many people can potentially make 100 times the impact. Just like individuals, when colleges and universities work together, they will be stronger.
Indeed, for maximum effect, higher education will have to find as many allies as possible. We can enlist everyone who has benefited from publicly-funded research, including treatments for cancer and childhood illnesses, batteries, HDTV, the Internet, weather forecasting, and more. We must remind the public that the discoveries of research translate basic science to health, prosperity, and security, touching billions. Without protection from the public, this accumulated capacity for greatness won’t survive the illegal assaults on our education system.
President Eisgruber wrote that Princeton and other institutions should engage in “forceful litigation.” But he has institutional responsibilities, both at Princeton and his role at the Association of American Universities, that limit what he can say or do. That is where the rest of us come in.
We scholars cannot let the government hold our work hostage. Science funding is being withheld in retaliation for protected free speech. We are passionate about science and its benefits to society, but we fear more what will happen if we do not help defend everyone’s fundamental rights. Freedom of expression and inquiry come first. If we lose these, we are at risk of losing not only science, but the entire educational enterprise — and broader freedoms in all society. In another sector, some big law firms are defending themselves. Like them, we must speak out for both ourselves and for society.
Finally: Students, we urge you to do your part. Use your critical thinking skills, and notice that institutions are letting us down. As faculty, our methods of communication involve paragraphs. Through new media like TikTok, you can craft compelling messages about science, learning, and freedom. Go in person to protest against the external threat. Use your freedom. Use your power.
We must not shrink from this moment. We hope that President Eisgruber’s example is amplified by all of us, for the sake of Princeton, Columbia, and the nation.
Sam Wang is a professor of Neuroscience. He can be reached at sswang[at]princeton.edu.
Andrew Leifer is an associate professor of Neuroscience and Physics. Jonathan Pillow, David Tank, and Ilana Witten are professors of Neuroscience.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 was irked at the unscripted questions.
At the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) meeting on Monday, Eisgruber was confronted with queries on the Trump administration and University governance from several students who had skirted the committee’s rules on submitting questions on advance.
The first question came from Vasanth Visweswaran ’28, who asked Eisgruber how he could use his position as chair of the Association of American Universities (AAU) to “defend all members of the University community from the recent Trump administration attacks on free speech, funding cuts and threats for deportations.”
“That’s not the question you submitted,” Eisgruber immediately responded. “Look, I’m gonna answer as best I can,” he continued.
“I think it is very important that we speak up about the good that higher education and universities do in our society,” Eisgruber said. He highlighted his roles as the board chair of the Association of American Universities and president of the University in defending the importance of higher education, citing an article he published in The Atlantic on March 19 condemning federal funding cuts at Columbia.
“I think that’s very different from opposing particular government officials or an administration,” he said in reference to defending universities.
“I would hope that anyone who takes a stand about wanting America to be great, [recognizes] that part of America’s greatness depends on the greatness of our research universities,” Eisgruber continued.
Historically, Eisgruber has embraced his role as a voice for higher education and the University — defending affirmative action or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients in Washington, for example. He also recently appeared on PBS News to discuss the implications of Columbia University’s policy responses to the Trump administration. On campus, however, Eisgruber characterizes himself as an administrator, not a politician.
The awkward exchange between administrator and student activist was unusual for a meeting that is typically procedurally rigid. Eisgruber’s responses were largely consistent with his restrained style and insistence on respecting University procedure.
The next question came from Rowan Johnson ’27, and was also unscripted.
“Will you be able to promise that you will not capitulate to the anti-democratic demands of the Trump administration, like the administration of Columbia University has done?” Johnson asked.
Eisgruber objected similarly. “These questions are not the questions that came in, you guys ... I think it’s important that we hold to the procedures,” he continued. However, he did engage with the question, adding, “I will just say that Princeton University will stand firm for its values and mission.”
The final question was asked by Zach Goldberg ’28. “I hope this is the question that you submitted in advance,” said Eisgruber.
Goldberg answered in affirmation, beginning with, “this ought to resemble the question we submitted in advance.” Goldberg then expressed concern over recent Environmental Protection Agency plans, Immigration and Customs Enforcement deportations, and cuts to National Institute of Health funding, amid a slew of executive orders in the first few months of the Trump Administration.
“Will the University commit to giving students a real seat at the table when these decisions are made?” asked Goldberg.
“Again, that question doesn’t resemble one that at least was shared,” Eisgruber responded. He then praised the CPUC as a body that honors student involvement in University discourse. “The body we have right here is a body which is rare in higher education, in being one that allows for open deliberation and discussion of difficult issues in the University,” Eisgruber said.
Goldberg began to reply when Eisgruber added, “No, I’m not actually going to allow a follow up, because that question itself wasn’t submitted to us.”
Goldberg then called out to the crowd, “So, we will not have a seat at the table” as student members of Sunrise Princeton stood up and filed out of the meeting.
Eisgruber continued to the next item on the agenda, an update from the Resources Committee given by Jay Groves, the Hugh Stott Taylor Chair of Chemistry and Chair of Research. The update focused on a report of the Resources Committee’s decision earlier this month not to recommend dissociation to the Board of Trustees.
Next was Associate Provost for Institutional Diversity and Inclusion, Sean Maxim’s presentation on the annual Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Annual Report. “Princeton remains committed to our values of diversity and inclusion,” Maxim said, echoing Esigruber’s sentiments from last month's CPUC meeting.
USG President Enzo Kho ’26 and GSG President Amari Tankard both gave short presentations reviewing their goals and planned initiatives for their respective terms.
The next CPUC meeting will be May 5.
Nikki Han contributed reporting.
Cynthia Torres is an assistant News editor and an Archives contributor. She is from New Bedford, MA. and typically covers University administration.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.An hour after the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) meeting on Monday, March 24, President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 addressed the Princeton town community to address the state of higher education, the University endowment, and ways to maintain collaboration between the town and the University.
The Princeton Town Hall Meeting is an event held annually by members of the Princeton Council in collaboration with Eisgruber, with the goal of facilitating open communication between the University and the town.
Eisgruber began the meeting by sharing his position on where the University currently stands.
“I do want to say some things about where we stand right now as a University and where we stand as a sector of colleges, universities, and higher education in this country at the moment: a moment where I feel very fortunate to be here in Princeton, New Jersey, in the middle of this town and in this state.”
Eisgruber also reflected on the impact of the Princeton University Art Museum (PUAM) on the Princeton township. He highlighted the Art on Hulfish and Art@Bainbridge gallery spaces as locations that have attracted town residents since the old art museum closed. “It will be an important point of pride, I hope, for this entire community,” he said.
Art on Hulfish closed for the final time in January. PUAM is set to open in October of this year, although the official opening date has not been announced at the time of publication.
Eisgruber also addressed concerns over federal funding cuts across the United States, telling the Council, “I think that higher education right now faces a kind of crisis that we have not faced for at least 70 years.” Last week, he described the funding cuts as a “radical threat to scholarly excellence” in an op-ed in The Atlantic.
He also reaffirmed the importance of research in the United States. “[The cuts are] serious threats to the science and research that have made the United States a world leader in innovation, in healthcare, in technology. They have contributed to our prosperity and our security as a society,” he noted.
Councilmember Brian McDonald asked Eisgruber to clarify how the University’s endowment works and is used, explaining, “Many people in town like to talk about the University’s endowment.”
Eisgruber clarified that the endowment does not function like a savings account, as it necessitates an annual payout.  According to him, the University currently has a payout of five percent a year from the endowment. It must also make five percent a year to cover it, in addition to covering any shifting costs due to inflation.
With the number of new projects in which the University is investing, such as increasing graduate stipends and expanding financial aid, the University currently has targets of earning around eight to 10 percent of the endowment each year to cover spending. However, the Trump administration is considering raising the 1.4 percent tax rate on University endowment returns, which was established under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.
Eisgruber explained that the proposed tax increases “would undermine our ability to continue to support the affordability and accessibility of the education we offer and to ensure that the research that we’re doing is cutting edge in the way that this country needs it to be.”
As well as research costs, the University has plans to help with town development. In January 2024, it announced a five-year plan to allocate $50 million in unrestricted cash donations to municipal projects and local agencies supporting lower- and middle-income residents. Eisgruber noted that “the five-year agreement provides an excellent framework for us going forward.”
Funding is currently being used towards town transit updates, which, according to Councilmember Michelle Lambros, are focused on “easing parking challenges — making our town more walkable, less car-centric.” She also mentioned that the town is working on getting two new EV buses.
Looking forward, Eisgruber said he is excited to work with the town on celebrating the University’s 280th anniversary, and suggested that the University community is “much stronger” compared to other institutions facing disunity and external pressures.
“One of the things that has dismayed me as I’ve looked at some other universities, is, at times, the folks there seem, metaphorically speaking, to be shooting at one another” he said. “Their community is under intense pressure from the outside, and one would hope they would all be standing up together … Instead, they seem to be divided against one another.”
Eisgruber also expressed appreciation for the commitment to patience and appreciation throughout Princeton’s entire community for the way the University is handling its affairs, and noted, “We need people to be able to respect institutions, even if they don’t agree with everything that’s going on, even if they’re pretty upset with some of the things going on.”
Luke Grippo is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including Undergraduate Student Government, the Council of the Princeton University Community, and institutional legacy.
Irene Kim is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Leela Hensler contributed reporting.
Please direct any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.While many students spent winter break catching up on sleep or traveling, Gavin Gershon ’28 spent his time a bit differently. Gershon won the game show The Price is Right, returning to campus with tens of thousands of dollars in prizes.
Gershon, a prospective linguistics major from Cherry Hill, N.J., appeared on a spring-break-themed episode of the nationally televised game show, winning the cash value of a brand-new car, a trip to Nevada, a hot tub, and several other prizes.
“I came here and did exactly what my dream was to do,” Gershon said in an interview about his win with The Daily Princetonian. “It was crazy how less than 60 minutes before, I was just sitting in the audience hoping to get picked. Then out of nowhere, less than an hour later, I had just won 45,000 [dollars] worth of prizes.”
Gershon, a longtime superfan of the game show where contestants guess the price of merchandise to win prizes, had spent much of winter break assessing strategies to win, “watching to get a feel for the prices of the games.”
“It’s been my favorite show growing up, and I’d watch it all the time,” he said. “My mom told me, ‘When you’re eligible, when you turn 18, we’re gonna go to [Los Angeles] and try to be on the show.’”
Over winter break, Gershon and his mother went to a taping of the show where he hoped to compete, but it was not guaranteed that he would be selected. Gershon was interviewed by the show’s producers while waiting in line and was later called down from the audience by host Drew Carey.
“I wanted more than anything to be called down and to have this opportunity and seeing my name get called down was insane,” Gershon said to the ‘Prince.’ “I only had 10 seconds to be super surprised and amazed, before I really had to lock in and focus on what was actually happening.”
While his mother was not able to watch her son compete, Gershon shared with the ‘Prince’ how grateful he was for her support. “I went out of the studio where my mom was waiting, and we went out to dinner together that night in LA to celebrate. I’m very grateful to my mom for not only taking me to the show but introducing me to the show in the first place.”
Remarking on the experience as a whole, Gerson said, “Even if I didn’t get picked — even if I was just in the audience and watched it all happen from the seats — it still would have been an absolutely once in a lifetime experience. But the fact that I was able to do what I had always dreamed of doing … I just felt so lucky and so grateful.”
Caitlyn Tablada is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’ She is from New York, N.Y. and typically covers student life.
Nico David-Fox is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Washington, D.C. and typically covers University operations.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: A previous version of this article asserted that filming took place over spring break when filming took place over winter break. The 'Prince' regrets this error.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.Bethany Suliguin ’27 was eating dinner before a rehearsal for the Sympoh dance show “Jailbreak” when she received an email from the National Institute of Health (NIH) that the agency would not be conducting internship interviews or extending offers.
Suliguin had already received an offer to conduct research at the NIH Clinical Center. But she learned just three weeks later that the NIH would not be able to take her as a paid summer intern, or even a volunteer. Now, Suliguin will be conducting research at a lab at Yonsei University in Korea.
In the wake of a federal hiring freeze and broader turmoil in the federal government, many students are having to rethink their summer internship plans.
Among those most affected is the Scholars in the Nation’s Service Initiative (SINSI). Each year, this competitive initiative offers an internship program to six to 10 undergraduates in the School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA), each of whom are personally advised by the SINSI director in finding a summer internship in public service. SINSI also offers a graduate program for first years in the Master of Public Administration (MPA) degree program, where accepted students go on to conduct two years of service in a federal program and return to Princeton for another year to complete their MPA.
Internship acceptances had not yet been extended, so while SINSI students did not lose already-offered positions, they were forced to pivot to different government and service internships, as many they had applied to had been cancelled.
On Jan. 20, the day of the hiring freeze, Samuel Kligman ’26 received around 10 to 15 emails from various agencies through USA Jobs, the federal government’s job application portal. He was notified that the opportunities he had applied to had either been canceled or would no longer be offered.
“That was definitely a difficult day … [I] had to adopt a glass half-full mindset,” Kligman told The Daily Princetonian. He is currently in the process of looking for another internship.
SINSI Director Gregory Jaczko has also had to pivot.
“This year, because there have not been as many opportunities in the federal government for internships, we have looked primarily to state and local governments, as well as multinational governments for internships,” Jaczko said.
Referring to organizations like the United Nations, the World Bank, and the International Monetary Fund, Jaczko said that SINSI will be “working, certainly, to establish relationships with those organizations so that students that have an interest in international development and international relations have an opportunity in some of these other organizations.”
Jaczko also shared that “the defense and national security areas don’t seem to be as strongly impacted by the hiring freeze. In fact, the original executive order excluded a lot of defense and national security apparatus, which is not atypical … We have interns who will likely go to the Department of Defense [DOD], for instance.”
Michelle Miao ’26, who initially sought to apply for a position in the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) or the Department of Justice (DOJ) Civil Rights Division, is among those looking at the DOD for internships.
Miao is a former staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
In addition to the DOD, Miao will now also be searching for internship prospects at the Department of Homeland Security for a “valuable summer experience.”
“The agencies still functioning normally are the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security. It’s worked out nicely because I’m also interested and have experience with foreign policy and security,” Miao stated.
Thomas Emens ’25, who will be a graduate fellow for SINSI, shared with the ‘Prince’ that the internship he did last year at the Department of Energy no longer exists.
“I’ve been in touch with people I used to work with in the Department of Energy. My supervisor is still there, but [for] people within the Community Jobs and Justice team, two have left under Trump, and the others were reassigned,” Emens said. “An opportunity to do an internship again with that particular team in that particular office won’t be available.”
Emens expressed that he believes this event may allow SINSI to “grow and broaden its focus.”
“There’s a real need across the country for people that have invested all of themselves in service that want to make a genuine difference, and there’s a big need for that at the sub-national level, at the state level, and the local level,” he explained. “Hopefully, the silver lining in all this could be: SINSI [fellows] are going to be making a difference in places where they otherwise wouldn't go.”
Jaczko shared a similar optimistic outlook. “It’s given SINSI a stronger motivation to reach out and establish relationships with some of these other organizations that we have not traditionally had interns or fellows serve in, in order to give them new opportunities, and then potentially to provide a new pathway for students in the SINSI program.”
Olin Zimmet ’26, a SINSI scholar who will be working with the Alaska state government, believes that students who want to work in service will adapt, regardless of where they work.
“I think that I will get so much out of this state-level stuff. And I think the same of my six colleagues — whatever they’re doing, they’re going to do some wonderful things,” he said. “And at the end of the day, service is service. You can attach the name, federal, state, whatever, to it. But people that want to serve in some form of government will serve, and folks that want to serve will.”
Princeton Internships in Civic Service (PICS), housed in the Pace Center for Civic Engagement, also had to cancel a large number of internships and job postings.
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ University spokesperson Jennifer Morrill, on behalf of PICS, wrote that 10 positions across six federal agencies offered through PICS have been canceled.
“PICS hopes to work with these agencies for summer 2026, and our office will remain in communication with our contacts,” she wrote. “Students who applied to any positions that are no longer available are eligible and have been encouraged to apply for an internship during the second round of Pace Center Summer Service Internship applications.”
Correction: a previous version of this article said that Samuel Kligman had received emails from the U.S. Agency of International Development on Jan. 20. In fact, he received notification from a number of agencies through USA Jobs. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error.
Luke Grippo is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including Undergraduate Student Government, the Council of the Princeton University Community, and institutional legacy.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.“Brett’s a head coach,” Head Coach Mitch Henderson ’98 said of Associate Head Coach Brett MacConnell two years ago in an interview at Jadwin Gym after the Tigers defeated No. 2 seed Arizona and No. 7 seed Missouri in the same weekend to reach the Sweet 16.
Just two years later, MacConnell and assistant coach Lawrence Rowley have been asked not to return to the Tiger bench following a tumultuous season that saw the Tigers eliminated in the Ivy Madness semifinals despite being picked as the overwhelming preseason favorite to play in the NCAA tournament. While the news has not been announced by the athletics department, The Daily Princetonian was able to independently verify the information from sources close to the team.
Associate Director of Athletics for Communications Chas Dorman would not comment specifically on personnel matters other than to confirm that currently all members of the men’s basketball coaching staff are employed by the University.
The ‘Prince’ independently verified that MacConnell's contract is not expected to be renewed and Rowley is not expected to be retained for the 2025-2026 season.
MacConnell has served as the team's recruiting coordinator since 2013, proving impactful in shaping the program’s identity and the team’s recent successes. Junior stars Xaivian Lee and Caden Pierce as well Tosan Evbuomwan ’23, Jaelin Llewellyn ’22,  Devin Cannady ’19, and Zach Martini ’24 all have something in common: getting recruited by MacConnell.
MacConnell flew out to Leicestershire, England to watch Evbuomwan, giving him an offer despite his team getting blown out. Princeton was the only Division I school to respond to Evbuomwan, now the NBA’s only Ivy Leaguer.
He took a chance on Lee, an unheralded recruit in high school who has blossomed into an NBA prospect, and Martini, who received his first Division I offer from MacConnell.
MacConnell was also invited to Silver Waves Media’s Elite 75 Future Head Coach Power Lunch, an event that highlights potential future Division 1 head coaches at this year’s Final Four in San Antonio.
Rowley, meanwhile has been with Princeton since the 2022 season. From 2018 to 2021, Rowley played Division III basketball at Emory University before his senior season was cancelled due to COVID-19.
After graduating in 2021, Rowley spent a year at The College of New Jersey as a graduate assistant coach. The Lions went 10–14 overall that season, and the next year Rowley joined the Tigers’ coaching staff.
Since 2022, Rowley has been an assistant coach for Princeton, helping develop stars like Lee and Pierce. He contributed to a three-year stretch where the Tigers won 66 of 91 games and 30 of 42 in the Ivy League.
The coaching changes raise questions about the future of the Princeton basketball program. With the transfer portal now open, concerns about roster changes are also likely to pop up. In the new era of Name, Image, and Likeness (NIL) in college sports, star players Xaivian Lee and Caden Pierce are bound to be offered six-figure deals to leave Princeton. But NIL is not limited to these players, and others on the team may be tempted to consider the portal.
After a season marked by unmet expectations, these coaching changes add uncertainty to the offseason for Princeton basketball.
Doug Schwartz is an associate Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.Since I arrived at Princeton, a niche type of content has flooded my social media feed: elite university students documenting the unique experience of attending a selective school. From packed “day in the life” vlogs to sneak peeks at seemingly luxurious dining hall meals, these videos emphasize the privilege, aesthetics, and exclusivity of the Ivy League student experience.
Instagram Reels or TikTok videos about the Ivy League college experience are often harmless. Personally, I enjoy videos with a simple Q&A format, or those where students showcase glimpses of their school’s main green to give a sense of its culture.
But when this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
This content often dramatizes the difference between the experience at elite universities and other schools. I’ve seen several TikTok videos with captions like “Things about [Ivy League school] that would send people from other schools into a coma” that, in reality, showcase something mundane that could be found at any university, like placement tests for languages. In doing so, these creators imply that the selectivity of elite universities somehow renders them entirely different from others.
By dramatizing the difference between elite schools and other universities, we play into the obsession with college admissions that has dominated the national discourse and perpetuate an idea of student-body superiority despite the inequities present in these admissions. In the process, we increase the cultural focus on the exclusivity of these schools rather than the quality of education that they offer. We should be wary of reinforcing this culture of exclusivity for prospective applicants perusing Princeton content online.
Content about the unique luxuries of an elite college experience doesn’t just distort how our schools are perceived by prospective applicants; it also distorts the perception of higher education by the nation at large. In one popular type of video, creators showcase the material luxuries that come with attending an Ivy, flaunting the gourmet cuisine and decadent decorations at events like “Harvard’s fanciest party” or the exquisite Yale holiday dinner, often to hundreds of thousands of likes. By doing so, they reinforce the idea that Ivy League schools provide a luxurious experience for a select few rather than a top-notch education meant to better the world.
The comment section of the aforementioned Yale video demonstrates this adverse effect. Many viewers point out the disparity between the event’s decadence and the poverty in New Haven. If we want to contradict the perception that elite universities are nothing more than finishing schools for the privileged, we need to think carefully about how we represent our student experience online.
Of course, Princeton’s student body remains disproportionately wealthy compared to the entire country, and Princeton students increasingly choose high-paying careers like consulting. In some ways, we are indeed the out-of-touch elite the media stereotypes. But to dismantle the elitism at Princeton, we first must reject it, not embrace it.
Given the national landscape, the association between elite schools that produce important research and havens for rich kids is especially important to fight. After all, it is well-established that Americans are beginning to lose faith in elite academia, viewing institutions like ours not as bodies to further knowledge for all but as finishing schools for an existing educational elite. In a poll by Gallup in 2023, the country’s confidence in higher education fell to 36 percent, down from 57 percent in 2015. When we outwardly market the privilege and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the experience, we only accelerate this loss of confidence.
When students highlight only the most luxurious aspects of schools like Princeton on social media, it becomes no easier to convince prospective students who aren’t from society’s upper echelons that Princeton is an inclusive place for them. In this way, the prestige and elitism promoted on social media create a self-fulfilling prophecy.
And with the Trump administration beginning to rescind university funding for bad-faith reasons — including at Columbia and Penn — the way we represent ourselves as a community takes on greater importance. Someone who believes their taxpayer dollars are funding Yale students’ gratuitously fancy holiday dinners might find no problem with withholding the university’s federal funding. Even though that funding is specifically earmarked for worthy causes like research or financial aid, it would be hard to blame them.
In this frightening political landscape, 30-second videos posted to social media may seem the least of our issues. But as students at a school aiming to increase its diversity and impact in the world amid a fraught moment for higher education, it is vital that we accurately convey our institution’s values. That starts by being thoughtful about how we represent the Princeton experience — and the college experience as a whole — on and off social media.
Shane McCauley is an assistant Opinion editor from Boston. He can be reached at sm8000[at]princeton.edu.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.
The rhetoric and policy proposals attacking transgender women affect us similarly. They explicitly seek to define womanhood, and their widespread acceptance gives legitimacy and legislative force to the practice of telling women who they are and what they can do.Last week, the White House announced a pause on $175 million of federal research funding to universities, with an X post citing “policies forcing women to compete with men in sports” as the justification for the pause. Trump also signed an executive order which effectively bans transgender identity by forcing citizens to identify with their sex assigned at birth.
The materialization of anti-transgender executive orders and federal legislation lends new legitimacy to anti-transgender Republican politics, which seemed like more of a cultural rallying cry than a serious legislative issue. In conjunction with the Dobbs decision overturning the right to an abortion, as well as an increase in misogynistic rhetoric from the right, these policies illustrate a goal much greater than removing 10 athletes from the NCAA.
Attacks on transgender rights are not just an offensive against one community; rather, they are part of a larger movement to reverse the progress women have made over the past half-century. Conservative politicians want to give the government the power to decide what makes someone a woman. That should scare you.
Giving the federal government the power to decide who is a woman is giving them the power to create a lower rank of second class female citizens. Whether they do this legislatively, culturally, or both, it is a danger not only to transgender women, but to all of us — especially at Princeton, which is full of diverse, ambitious, and career-oriented women.
Vice President J.D. Vance has amplified traditionalist rhetoric about the role of women. He has publicly expressed that it is a woman’s responsibility to her children to remain in an abusive marriage, and that people without children should “face consequences” by having less of a say in our democracy. This rhetoric works in tandem with Dobbs to suggest that the Republican Party thinks American women have a responsibility to rear children, and that deviating from that responsibility is disgraceful and punishable. This is an attempt to define what a woman should be: a childrearing, tied-down caretaker.
Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth ’03 has perpetuated similar ideas, publicly criticizing the role of women in the military and explicitly saying that, due to their gender, women are inherently unfit to serve our country: “Dads push us to take risks. Moms put the training wheels on our bikes. We need moms. But not in the military, especially in combat units.”
Hegseth has since attempted to walk back these comments following his nomination and confirmation to be Secretary of Defense, but the ideas seem to have taken hold within the Trump administration: A firing spree after the inauguration has removed most high-ranking female officers from their post. Hegseth’s comments and the purging of top-ranking female officers are further attempts to define women according to narrow, antiquated gender roles. According to him, women are weak, incapable, and incompetent.
The Princeton community is full of women who defy these reductive and oppressive definitions. Our alumni are Supreme Court justices, First Ladies, and powerful business leaders. The conservative quest to box us in, limit our futures, and dampen our ambitions is a threat that we must take seriously, and it cannot be separated from attacks on transgender women.
The rhetoric and policy proposals attacking transgender women affect us similarly. They explicitly seek to define womanhood, and their widespread acceptance gives legitimacy and legislative force to the practice of telling women who they are and what they can do.
Policies meant to legislate and harass transgender women have an impact on all women, just like rhetoric meant to limit them. We have seen anti-transgender rhetoric used to disparage and disqualify female athletes of color who have never undergone any social or physical sex changes. Widespread implementation of policies like South Carolina representative Nancy Mace’s “bathroom bill” would subject women and girls who are deemed suspect — often women and girls who don’t conform to traditional notions of femininity — to inspection, scrutiny, and even violation.
Together, these policies work to create a second class of female citizens out of those who do not fit whatever definition of a “woman” those in power prefer, transgender or not.
And there are already groups of women in this country who, without government mandate, are treated as second-class female citizens. Black women experience maternal mortality at a rate more than two and a half times that of their white counterparts. Hispanic women face a gender pay gap nearly 20 percent wider than that faced by white women. Black and Hispanic women endure domestic violence at higher rates. Indigenous women and girls go missing at a rate 10 times higher than the national average. Disabled women are three times more likely to experience rape or sexual assault than their able-bodied counterparts.
Giving the federal government the power to dictate, define, and mold womanhood would exacerbate and systematize these existing inequities. Marginalized women know the pain of existing in this realm of womanhood, one that deems you less than other women. The institutionalization of this practice of deeming certain women less worthy than others is most immediately perilous for transgender women, but it is eminently dangerous for all of us.
What should worry us the most, as women who are also students, is that the Trump administration is starting here. Through federal funding and legislation by the NCAA, the administration has shown that it is willing to use education as a battlefield to fight its culture war. Policies and politicians that attack the transgender community and target transgender women should scare us all. The oppression and rights of all women are interconnected. Transgender athletes are the first ones they have come for, but if we do not fight back, they will not be the last.
Ava Johnson is a sophomore columnist and Politics major from Washington, D.C. Her column “The New Nassau” runs every three weeks on Thursdays. You can read all of her columns here. She can be reached by email at aj9432[at]princeton.edu.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.The Davis International Center (Davis IC), Princeton’s center for international students and scholars, advised non-U.S. citizens at Princeton to carry their I-94 forms and “exercise caution” with regards to international travel, in an email sent on Friday. The email also warned students to “be mindful that electronic devices are subject to search when entering the US,” including social media activity.
The I-94 form, also known as an Arrival-Departure Record Card, is a form used by U.S. Customs and Border Protection to track the arrival and departure of non-citizens, and it contains proof of legal entry and allowed stay time. The document is given to all holders of sponsored visas, but not green card holders.
The advice comes the same day as new U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) guidance, which reflects a Jan. 20 executive order from President Donald Trump requiring all non-citizens 14 years or older to register their status with the government. According to USCIS, “Once an alien has registered and appeared for fingerprinting (unless waived), DHS will issue evidence of registration, which aliens over the age of 18 must carry and keep in their personal possession at all times.”
According to the email from the Davis IC, “it appears that students and scholars [on nonimmigrant visas] should already be considered ‘registered’ by virtue of admission to the U.S. and issuance of an I-94,” but the details of the registration process currently remain unclear.
“We are reviewing the new registration process, and we hope that the government will clarify the details in the coming weeks,” the email reads.
It is also unknown at this time if or how the registration requirement will affect green card holders.
This message is the first piece of concrete advice sent to all international members of the University community at Princeton, and comes as the Trump administration takes a hardline against immigration that has caused much fear and uncertainty on college campuses nationwide.
Earlier this week, a French scientist was detained upon entry to the U.S. after messages critical of the administration were found in his phone. Additionally, Mahmoud Khalil, a recent graduate of Columbia University and green-card holder, was arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement due to being considered a threat to national security for his role in Columbia’s pro-Palestine protests. At Cornell, a student from Gambia was asked by ICE to turn himself in for leading pro-Palestine protests.
On a global scale, countries are updating their travel advisories to reflect changes in U.S. policy. Following the detention of several German nationals, German authorities updated its travel advisory to the United States. The United Kingdom has also revised its travel guidance in the past several weeks for any travelers planning to visit the U.S.
In January, as other schools advised students to return before Trump’s inauguration, the Davis IC issued no such warning. Davis IC Director Albert Rivera did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The email ended with notice of virtual attorney sessions, open to all, that the Davis IC is hosting on March 26. “Attorney Session: An Update on U.S. Immigration Issues” will be held at 12:30 p.m., and “Immigration Do’s and Don’ts & How to Prepare” at 8 p.m.
Christopher Bao is a head News editor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Princeton, N.J. and typically covers town politics and life.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.President Donald Trump recently moved to consolidate power in the Office of the President — not the office at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, but the one at Columbia University.
On March 13, the Trump administration sent Columbia an ultimatum. To restore $400 million in frozen federal funds, Trump officials wrote, Columbia must “abolish the University Judicial Board [UJB] and centralize all disciplinary processes under the Office of the [University] President” and “empower the Office of the President to suspend or expel students with an appeal process through the Office of the President,” among other demands.
On March 21, Columbia acquiesced. A statement from the interim university president, Katrina Armstrong, stated that “the UJB will be situated within and overseen by the Office of the Provost, who reports to the President of Columbia.”
Trump’s demands of Columbia were extreme and autocratic — an attempt to employ his own authoritarianism to breed more of it. And by accepting his demands, Columbia allows itself to be restructured as more authoritarian and follows in the federal government’s footsteps. But as our Editorial Board warns, Trump’s actions will not stop in Morningside Heights. When the Trump administration asks Princeton to sell out its community, that community should have real power to say “no.”
At a time when autocracy is rising nationwide, Princeton should respond with democracy here. For too long, the disciplinary and policy-making procedures at Princeton have been opaque and anti-democratic. We ought to move toward the democratization of internal processes, thereby affirming the importance of disciplinary due process and true community input in policy formation.
University democratization is often mischaracterized, including by my former colleague Abigail Rabieh, as reckless direct democracy for undergraduates. But that is not what democratic processes at a university would resemble. Instead, to democratize Princeton would be to integrate democratic values — due process, the presumption of innocence, constituent input on (but not complete control over) policy-making — into our processes.
Princeton should first move towards democratizing discipline processes. While Trump attempts to push Columbia’s disciplinary processes into the Office of the President and remove authority from its University Judicial Board, Princeton should move in the opposite direction, starting with its equivalent, the Committee on Discipline (COD).
As it exists today, the COD lacks guardrails, violating students’ due process rights when it should be affirming them. When speaking to university investigators about alleged disciplinary violations, students are not afforded the same right to silence as in legal proceedings. Instead, their silence may be taken as evidence of their guilt, or as a violation in itself. Rather than gathering information, investigators also operate under a presumption of guilt, working to construct a narrative about accused students instead of listening to them.
No student should be asked to experience emotional turmoil, isolation, and depression as they work frantically to prove their innocence, when the burden of proof ought to lie with their accuser. The presumption of innocence is an essential democratic right, and we should treat it as such.
The normative shift here is twofold: First, it would humanize the discipline process for students accused of violations by shifting the burden of proof; and second, it would legitimize the process by reducing the possibility of an incorrect guilty verdict and aligning with broader due process standards. These shifts, if the University sticks to them, would allow Princeton to resist attempts to curtail free speech on college campuses by unfairly prosecuting or deporting students.
Beyond disciplinary due process, Princeton has plenty of room to move opposite the Trump administration. The University’s policy-making procedures are still a far cry from democratic. Because of the lack of clear processes for policy change at Princeton, coordinated efforts are often necessary to achieve community engagement. And it becomes far too easy for those efforts to fall out of the equation altogether.
Although University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 told The Daily Princetonian that he “encourage[s] [students] to engage with the community-wide processes through which policy is made at the University,” façades of student, faculty, and staff input often give way to an obfuscated and centralized policy-making process mostly controlled by the Board of Trustees.
President Eisgruber points to the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) as a “body which is rare in higher education, in being one that allows for open deliberation.” However, a council of community members whose primary responsibility is to “make recommendations” regarding University policy to actual decision-making bodies is not democracy, but the mere semblance of it. And the CPUC requirement for pre-approved questioning produces sanitized engagement with the University community rather than legitimate discourse.
Other means of expressing community opinion are regularly dismissed out of hand. Student referenda, according to Eisgruber himself, are “not part of [the University’s] governance processes.” The University dissociated from fossil fuel companies based on the recommendations of a faculty panel, but then resumed accepting research funding from those companies without input from any student, staff, or that faculty panel. And every decision and conversation had in a Trustees meeting is secret until the minutes are unsealed … thirty years later.
This lack of transparency, combined with the evident disregard for actually considering community input in policy-making, renders Princeton’s processes exceedingly undemocratic. There is no reason that student referenda, which capture student consensus, should not be considered when making decisions. And if the Trustees were truly working for the good of the University community, they’d have no issue making their meetings public and accepting civil comments from the community.
As they have in the past, universities must be the first to resist authoritarianism. By moving in the opposite direction of the Trump administration, we can stand up for our community even as an autocrat attempts to impose his will on our peer institutions. We are a reflection of America, and must be the bedrock of its democracy.
Democracy is not a radical idea, but a sensible one. We ought to affirm that in our practices for discipline and decision-making — whether or not the Trump administration picks us as the next target for an authoritarian overhaul.
Isaac Barsoum ’28 is a first-year intended Politics major from Charlotte, N.C. He believes that loving Princeton means finding ways it can become a safer, happier, more inclusive place. His column, “A Princeton for All,” runs every other Thursday. You can read his column here. You can reach him at itbarsoum[at]princeton.edu.
Correction: A previous version of this piece stated that the University unilaterally reversed its decision to divest from fossil fuel companies in 2024. In fact, that decision was modified to accept research funds in some instances. The 'Prince' regrets this error.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
I am writing in my personal capacity as the former President of the Interclub Council to give the University some feedback on an important matter they are currently reviewing. From late 2023 to early 2024, the University hired an outside consulting firm, Huron Consulting Group, to examine the housing and dining undergraduate experience. Last summer, the Huron Group quietly released a 25-page report detailing their findings. The report is as opaque with its methodology as it is sweeping in the scope of its recommendations, the most extreme of which is a proposal on the last page to require all students who reside on campus to purchase a campus dining meal plan — including juniors and seniors currently on an eating club contract.
This course of action would be harmful to the undergraduate experience and poses an existential threat to the eating clubs, potentially forcing many into financial ruin. If implemented, the report’s recommendation would sever past and present generations of Princetonians from their unique and tight-knit communities, reverse decades of progress towards diversity in the clubs, and throw the undergraduate dining system into disarray. I respectfully call on the administration to disavow this course of action, since the relationship between the University and the eating clubs is ultimately one of mutual benefit.
The eating clubs play a vital role in nurturing Princeton’s undergraduate and alumni communities. The Huron Report itself emphasized that “students who are a part of [an] eating club are more satisfied than those who identify as Independent or have selected a meal plan.” The eating clubs provide a convenient location to eat, as well as a vibrant campus social scene with robust safety measures, including hiring professional bouncers, running SHARE training for members, partnering with PSafe, and defining policies around after-dark events. The rich and longstanding history of the eating clubs also helps members feel a sense of investment in a beloved campus tradition. There’s a reason Princeton has the most loyal alumni in the Ivy League — long after graduation, students who were in eating clubs have a lifelong home on campus to come back to.
However, requiring all juniors and seniors to purchase a campus dining meal plan would threaten these benefits. Few Princetonians would be able to afford both their eating club fees and a campus meal plan, so requiring such a plan is tantamount to forcing most students to give up their eating club memberships. Notably, the Huron Report does not recommend that the University readjust their increased food budget for juniors and seniors to be higher, which could shield students on financial aid from the worst of the effects. With a decimated pool of potential members, most if not all eating clubs would simply not be able to continue operation — especially in the face of sky-high property taxes, multiple forms of insurance, and rising inflation in the food industry.
The report is, at the moment, a recommendation. But the stakes are high. Every time in the past a club has closed on the Street has been a heartbreaking experience for its undergraduate and alumni members. In particular, stripping alumni of their “home away from home” at Princeton would lessen their connection to campus and the University. According to the Huron Report itself, “Alumni eating club members expressed a high degree of affinity for their club, describing it as a defining element of the residential experience. The eating clubs were cited as motivators for alumni to return to campus.” This is due in no small part to the fiercely proud and tight-knit communities we are able to form at the eating clubs, which remain near and dear to alumni hearts even decades after they graduate.
Furthermore, following the Huron Report’s recommendation would reverse decades of painstaking and fruitful progress on eating club diversity. The eating clubs today are more diverse in terms of race, gender, and socioeconomic background than they have ever been before. But if all students were required to purchase a campus dining plan, only the most wealthy and privileged Princetonians would be able to afford an eating club membership on top of it. Instead of being able to serve large majorities of Princeton’s student population, the clubs would only be able to cater to the “one percent,” turning into regressive and anachronistic versions of themselves that nobody, especially the current and increasingly diverse membership of the clubs, wants them to be.
Lastly, requiring all juniors and seniors to purchase campus dining plans would negatively impact the general undergraduate dining experience, including first-years and sophomores, as well as the students who choose to remain on a dining hall plan in their upperclass years. The current dining hall options are already crowded, with long lines winding through the serveries and teeming with unfamiliar faces. Jamming several thousand additional juniors and seniors into an already overburdened and crowded campus dining system would exacerbate these issues, no matter how many gleaming new dining halls rise at Hobson or other farther locations.
Both of us, the University and the eating clubs, ultimately share the same goal: making the undergraduate experience as enriching and rewarding as possible and fostering an enthusiastic and involved alumni community. Adopting the Huron Report’s recommendation to force every student to purchase a campus dining meal plan, even if they have another full meal plan, would be counterproductive to that mutual goal. It would take away one of the most beloved Princeton traditions, reversing decades of progress and worsening the Princeton experience for all students, regardless of whether they participate in an eating club. I am, respectfully, offering my advice to the University to reject this ill-conceived recommendation.
Vincent Jiang ’25 is the President Emeritus of the Interclub Council, the organization composed of the eleven undergraduate eating club presidents at Princeton University. He can be reached at vincentjiang[at]princeton.edu.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the authors’ views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
Columbia University appears to have given in to the government’s anti-constitutional  and autocratic attack on free speech and the rule of law. In the face of Project 2025-inspired demands from the Trump administration, Columbia expelled students and revoked degrees. On Friday, they announced further concessions, including, most concerningly to us, the removal of academic self-governance from the Department of Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies.
After all of this, the restoration of $400 million in research grants, including lifesaving clinical trials and training grants for postdocs and students, is still not guaranteed. And as President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 has aptly put it, “once you make concessions once, it’s hard not to make them again.”
It may be easy to label Columbia’s actions as capitulation. However, when the full force of the U.S. government is set against any single institution, resistance is difficult.
But it’s not just Columbia. Princeton, along with 59 others, is on a list of universities targeted by the administration. President Eisgruber has started the pushback, standing up on behalf of academic freedom and saying that the Trump administration is attacking higher education. Professors, students, other universities, and the public should join him: When targeting one institution is a bald attempt to divide and conquer, as is the case with Columbia, it is essential for a coalition or group of institutions and individuals to stand up together.
Threats to university research directly affect student opportunity. Here at Princeton, students can work with world-class scientists and scholars, opening gateways to medical and graduate schools. If labs close, that opportunity shrinks: Students will have fewer opportunities to do research and build their futures.
The recent hiring freeze here at Princeton and at peer institutions such as Harvard and Penn is an early warning sign. Elsewhere, graduate schools are rescinding offers to college seniors. The damage threatens to encompass all fields including social sciences, engineering, and humanities, devaluing the degrees all students are working toward.
Do not be fooled by those who wish to use impassioned debates within higher education as a means of driving us apart. Last year Congressional Republicans used the war in Gaza and the ensuing student protests as a wedge. Now, inspired by strategists like Christopher Rufo, the administration is going after programs with words like “diversity.” They will continue to look for points of legitimate disagreement, then lean into those points to advance autocracy.
Some values transcend ideology or party. Colleges and universities have been a pillar of American strength throughout Democratic and Republican governments over the last hundred years. That pillar is now under threat as part of a broader attack on a law-based society, and as part of a larger assault on institutions, from Social Security to flight safety.
As Lee Bollinger, former president of Columbia and the University of Michigan, has put it, we are in the midst of an authoritarian takeover. In the midst of this, standing up for higher education is part of a larger defense of the whole nation’s well-being and the rules-based system that has allowed the nation to prosper.
Some may be apprehensive of speaking out in isolation. However, there is no reward for obeying in advance. A successful response requires action, together. In Erica Chenoweth and Maria J. Stephan’s work on nonviolent movements around the world, they found that if a movement spreads to even a few percent of the population, success becomes more likely than not. Furthermore, there are network effects: 10 times as many people can potentially make 100 times the impact. Just like individuals, when colleges and universities work together, they will be stronger.
Indeed, for maximum effect, higher education will have to find as many allies as possible. We can enlist everyone who has benefited from publicly-funded research, including treatments for cancer and childhood illnesses, batteries, HDTV, the Internet, weather forecasting, and more. We must remind the public that the discoveries of research translate basic science to health, prosperity, and security, touching billions. Without protection from the public, this accumulated capacity for greatness won’t survive the illegal assaults on our education system.
President Eisgruber wrote that Princeton and other institutions should engage in “forceful litigation.” But he has institutional responsibilities, both at Princeton and his role at the Association of American Universities, that limit what he can say or do. That is where the rest of us come in.
We scholars cannot let the government hold our work hostage. Science funding is being withheld in retaliation for protected free speech. We are passionate about science and its benefits to society, but we fear more what will happen if we do not help defend everyone’s fundamental rights. Freedom of expression and inquiry come first. If we lose these, we are at risk of losing not only science, but the entire educational enterprise — and broader freedoms in all society. In another sector, some big law firms are defending themselves. Like them, we must speak out for both ourselves and for society.
Finally: Students, we urge you to do your part. Use your critical thinking skills, and notice that institutions are letting us down. As faculty, our methods of communication involve paragraphs. Through new media like TikTok, you can craft compelling messages about science, learning, and freedom. Go in person to protest against the external threat. Use your freedom. Use your power.
We must not shrink from this moment. We hope that President Eisgruber’s example is amplified by all of us, for the sake of Princeton, Columbia, and the nation.
Sam Wang is a professor of Neuroscience. He can be reached at sswang[at]princeton.edu.
Andrew Leifer is an associate professor of Neuroscience and Physics. Jonathan Pillow, David Tank, and Ilana Witten are professors of Neuroscience.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
Now is the spring of our discontent, at least for the Princeton men’s basketball team.
The news that two assistant coaches — Associate Head Coach Brett MacConnell and Assistant Coach Lawrence Rowley — have been fired is certain to shake the world of Princeton men’s basketball and reverberate through the entire Ivy League.
The departure of MacConnell is particularly shocking given the central role he played in recruiting top-tier talent to Princeton over the past 12 years. The Princeton Athletic Department’s website credits MacConnell with recruiting some of the greatest players in the history of Princeton basketball, including NBA talent Tosan Evbuomwan ’23, who led Princeton to the Sweet 16 just two years ago.
Other notable MacConnell recruits include current star juniors Caden Pierce and Xaivian Lee, along with highly ranked former players such as Jaelin Lllewellyn ’22, Devin Cannady ’20, Myles Stephens ’19, and Amir Bell ’18.
MacConnell is so highly regarded in Ivy circles that his name has been floated for recent head coach vacancies at Penn and Columbia.
But how important is this development to the future of Princeton men’s basketball?
The departure of MacConnell and Rowley will have some impact in the near term. However, this development is overshadowed by bigger forces in the college basketball world that are detrimental to the Ivy League, such as the institution of Name, Image, and Likeness (NIL) deals.
In the short term, the sacking of MacConnell and Rowley reveals a troubling rupture in the program, the contours of which are not yet fully known.
What is known is that the Tigers, picked in the preseason to win the Ivy League, underperformed throughout the season, often falling behind by double-digits in the opening minutes of games. Head Coach Mitch Henderson ’98 seemed to be at a loss to correct the problem and vocalized frustration at multiple points in the season.
In a moment of candor after Princeton’s season-ending loss to Yale in the semifinals of the Ivy League Tournament, Henderson admitted he had mismanaged the amount of playing time he gave to Jacob Huggins, a sophomore forward who started the season strong and then inexplicably disappeared from the lineup.
“Got to blame the coach on that one,” Henderson told reporters on March 15, following Princeton’s loss to Yale. “You know, that’s on me. He was really helpful all season and [it was] my decision at certain times to not play him, [but] he was terrific when he did [play].”
Reflecting on his coaching for the season, Henderson provided a curt summary. “Yeah, [it] wasn’t my best year.”
Some may speculate that MacConnell and Rowley are fall guys for a season that failed to live up to expectations. But that explanation doesn’t make sense given that Princeton has had plenty of seasons that didn’t quite work out as planned in the past without heads rolling on the coaching staff.
Something deeper seems to be at work here.
A year ago, the Tigers managed to avoid the kind of roster churn that has been afflicting so many college basketball programs in recent years. After a shocking loss to Brown in the 2024 Ivy League tournament, Pierce and Lee could have easily left Princeton, as others did. Yet both players returned for their junior campaigns, as did Jack Scott, who initially transferred to William & Mary and then abruptly changed course and returned to Old Nassau.
Other Ivy programs were not as fortunate. Yale lost its best player, Danny Wolf, to the transfer portal, as did Penn with Tyler Perkins, the 2024 Ivy League Rookie of the Year. The year before, the Quakers lost Jordan Dingle, the 2023 Ivy League Player of the Year, to the portal. And earlier this week, another standout Penn player, Sam Brown, announced his intention to enter the portal, as did Cornell’s AK Okereke.
Thus, the turmoil now afflicting Princeton is, to some extent, endemic to the game of college basketball today, especially at the mid-major level.
In the long run, the biggest risk to the continued success of Princeton basketball isn’t the sudden departure of two assistant coaches. The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.
The advent of Name, Image, and Likeness (NIL) deals, direct player payments, and the transfer portal, along with conference realignment, is leading to a consolidation of power among a handful of programs within the so-called “power four” conferences.
The Ivy League has made a conscious attempt to avoid playing in this arena by denying graduate students an opportunity to play varsity sports, opting out of player payment plans made available under the House antitrust settlement, placing constraints on NIL deals, and making it difficult for transfers from other programs to come into the Ivy League.
And these are just the most recent developments that put the Ivy League at a disadvantage.
Princeton and its Ivy compatriots were already handicapped by refusing to offer athletes scholarships and by adhering to much higher admission standards than any of their Division I competitors in sports.
If it wanted to, the Ivy League could make it easier for its members to compete in this new world of money-driven intercollegiate athletics. Graduate students with eligibility could be allowed to compete in varsity sports. The Ivy League could reverse its decision to opt out of the player payment system established by the House settlement. New procedures could be established to make it easier for players to transfer into the Ivy League.
The surprising firing of two assistant coaches will hurt in the short-term, but in the long run, the biggest threat to the relevance of Princeton basketball is the increasing flow of money into the sport and the unwillingness of the Ivy League to embrace the new realities of big-time intercollegiate athletics.
Steve Silverman ’83 is a lifelong follower of Princeton basketball, an adjunct Professor of Law at the University of Colorado Law School, and a frequent contributor to Ivy Hoops Online and The Next. He can be reached at steven.c.silverman[at]gmail.com.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The rhetoric and policy proposals attacking transgender women affect us similarly. They explicitly seek to define womanhood, and their widespread acceptance gives legitimacy and legislative force to the practice of telling women who they are and what they can do.University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 was irked at the unscripted questions.
At the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) meeting on Monday, Eisgruber was confronted with queries on the Trump administration and University governance from several students who had skirted the committee’s rules on submitting questions on advance.
The first question came from Vasanth Visweswaran ’28, who asked Eisgruber how he could use his position as chair of the Association of American Universities (AAU) to “defend all members of the University community from the recent Trump administration attacks on free speech, funding cuts and threats for deportations.”
“That’s not the question you submitted,” Eisgruber immediately responded. “Look, I’m gonna answer as best I can,” he continued.
“I think it is very important that we speak up about the good that higher education and universities do in our society,” Eisgruber said. He highlighted his roles as the board chair of the Association of American Universities and president of the University in defending the importance of higher education, citing an article he published in The Atlantic on March 19 condemning federal funding cuts at Columbia.
“I think that’s very different from opposing particular government officials or an administration,” he said in reference to defending universities.
“I would hope that anyone who takes a stand about wanting America to be great, [recognizes] that part of America’s greatness depends on the greatness of our research universities,” Eisgruber continued.
Historically, Eisgruber has embraced his role as a voice for higher education and the University — defending affirmative action or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients in Washington, for example. He also recently appeared on PBS News to discuss the implications of Columbia University’s policy responses to the Trump administration. On campus, however, Eisgruber characterizes himself as an administrator, not a politician.
The awkward exchange between administrator and student activist was unusual for a meeting that is typically procedurally rigid. Eisgruber’s responses were largely consistent with his restrained style and insistence on respecting University procedure.
The next question came from Rowan Johnson ’27, and was also unscripted.
“Will you be able to promise that you will not capitulate to the anti-democratic demands of the Trump administration, like the administration of Columbia University has done?” Johnson asked.
Eisgruber objected similarly. “These questions are not the questions that came in, you guys ... I think it’s important that we hold to the procedures,” he continued. However, he did engage with the question, adding, “I will just say that Princeton University will stand firm for its values and mission.”
The final question was asked by Zach Goldberg ’28. “I hope this is the question that you submitted in advance,” said Eisgruber.
Goldberg answered in affirmation, beginning with, “this ought to resemble the question we submitted in advance.” Goldberg then expressed concern over recent Environmental Protection Agency plans, Immigration and Customs Enforcement deportations, and cuts to National Institute of Health funding, amid a slew of executive orders in the first few months of the Trump Administration.
“Will the University commit to giving students a real seat at the table when these decisions are made?” asked Goldberg.
“Again, that question doesn’t resemble one that at least was shared,” Eisgruber responded. He then praised the CPUC as a body that honors student involvement in University discourse. “The body we have right here is a body which is rare in higher education, in being one that allows for open deliberation and discussion of difficult issues in the University,” Eisgruber said.
Goldberg began to reply when Eisgruber added, “No, I’m not actually going to allow a follow up, because that question itself wasn’t submitted to us.”
Goldberg then called out to the crowd, “So, we will not have a seat at the table” as student members of Sunrise Princeton stood up and filed out of the meeting.
Eisgruber continued to the next item on the agenda, an update from the Resources Committee given by Jay Groves, the Hugh Stott Taylor Chair of Chemistry and Chair of Research. The update focused on a report of the Resources Committee’s decision earlier this month not to recommend dissociation to the Board of Trustees.
Next was Associate Provost for Institutional Diversity and Inclusion, Sean Maxim’s presentation on the annual Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Annual Report. “Princeton remains committed to our values of diversity and inclusion,” Maxim said, echoing Esigruber’s sentiments from last month's CPUC meeting.
USG President Enzo Kho ’26 and GSG President Amari Tankard both gave short presentations reviewing their goals and planned initiatives for their respective terms.
The next CPUC meeting will be May 5.
Nikki Han contributed reporting.
Cynthia Torres is an assistant News editor and an Archives contributor. She is from New Bedford, MA. and typically covers University administration.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.“Brett’s a head coach,” Head Coach Mitch Henderson ’98 said of Associate Head Coach Brett MacConnell two years ago in an interview at Jadwin Gym after the Tigers defeated No. 2 seed Arizona and No. 7 seed Missouri in the same weekend to reach the Sweet 16.
Just two years later, MacConnell and assistant coach Lawrence Rowley have been asked not to return to the Tiger bench following a tumultuous season that saw the Tigers eliminated in the Ivy Madness semifinals despite being picked as the overwhelming preseason favorite to play in the NCAA tournament. While the news has not been announced by the athletics department, The Daily Princetonian was able to independently verify the information from sources close to the team.
Associate Director of Athletics for Communications Chas Dorman would not comment specifically on personnel matters other than to confirm that currently all members of the men’s basketball coaching staff are employed by the University.
The ‘Prince’ independently verified that MacConnell's contract is not expected to be renewed and Rowley is not expected to be retained for the 2025-2026 season.
MacConnell has served as the team's recruiting coordinator since 2013, proving impactful in shaping the program’s identity and the team’s recent successes. Junior stars Xaivian Lee and Caden Pierce as well Tosan Evbuomwan ’23, Jaelin Llewellyn ’22,  Devin Cannady ’19, and Zach Martini ’24 all have something in common: getting recruited by MacConnell.
MacConnell flew out to Leicestershire, England to watch Evbuomwan, giving him an offer despite his team getting blown out. Princeton was the only Division I school to respond to Evbuomwan, now the NBA’s only Ivy Leaguer.
He took a chance on Lee, an unheralded recruit in high school who has blossomed into an NBA prospect, and Martini, who received his first Division I offer from MacConnell.
MacConnell was also invited to Silver Waves Media’s Elite 75 Future Head Coach Power Lunch, an event that highlights potential future Division 1 head coaches at this year’s Final Four in San Antonio.
Rowley, meanwhile has been with Princeton since the 2022 season. From 2018 to 2021, Rowley played Division III basketball at Emory University before his senior season was cancelled due to COVID-19.
After graduating in 2021, Rowley spent a year at The College of New Jersey as a graduate assistant coach. The Lions went 10–14 overall that season, and the next year Rowley joined the Tigers’ coaching staff.
Since 2022, Rowley has been an assistant coach for Princeton, helping develop stars like Lee and Pierce. He contributed to a three-year stretch where the Tigers won 66 of 91 games and 30 of 42 in the Ivy League.
The coaching changes raise questions about the future of the Princeton basketball program. With the transfer portal now open, concerns about roster changes are also likely to pop up. In the new era of Name, Image, and Likeness (NIL) in college sports, star players Xaivian Lee and Caden Pierce are bound to be offered six-figure deals to leave Princeton. But NIL is not limited to these players, and others on the team may be tempted to consider the portal.
After a season marked by unmet expectations, these coaching changes add uncertainty to the offseason for Princeton basketball.
Doug Schwartz is an associate Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.After a grueling 18-game stretch of away games against some of college baseball’s best teams, Princeton baseball (7–15, 3–0 Ivy League) returned home to open Ivy play against the Dartmouth Big Green (0–13, 0–3). Behind electric hitting and elite bullpen performances, the Tigers swept Dartmouth in a roaring start to their Ivy League campaign.
“Every win in Ivy League play is critical, so it was nice to get all three this weekend,” Head Coach Scott Bradley told The Daily Princetonian.
On Saturday, the Tigers opened the series with senior starting pitcher Andrew D’Alessio on the mound. After a shaky start to the season, D’Alessio looked to right the ship against Dartmouth. Not a strikeout-heavy pitcher, he worked to limit hard contact and left the game with a quality start and a win.
Early on, both teams traded leads. The Tigers earned the game’s opening run in the third inning through a walk and two infield singles, loading the bases for first-year first baseman Nick Shenefelt. Shenefelt hit a sacrifice fly to right, putting the Tigers ahead 1–0 until Dartmouth tied the score in the top of the fifth.
With the game knotted at 1–1, the Tiger offense came to life in the bottom of the fifth, scoring three runs to make it 4–1. One half-inning later, the defense caved behind D’Alessio, recording a pair of errors and allowing Dartmouth to take a 5–4 lead off of two unearned and two earned runs.
Facing their first deficit of the game, Princeton wasted no time clawing their way back. An RBI single from sophomore designated hitter Jake Kernodle and an RBI double from Shenefelt put the Tigers back in front for good. The Tigers won 8–5, taking the advantage in the series.
B6 | Princeton 6, Dartmouth 5@nick_shenefelt racks up his THIRD RBI of the day and gives Princeton the lead‼️📺ESPN+ pic.twitter.com/TSSmQR3au3
The second game started shortly after the first on Saturday but ended an entire day later after going into extra innings, forcing a stoppage due to darkness. After many lead changes and much anticipation, the Tigers came out with a thrilling win thanks to the bat of junior second baseman Jake Koonin.
With 6’7” first-year pitcher James Beasley on the mound, the Tigers wasted no time bringing the run support. After Dartmouth scratched across a run in the first inning, the Tigers added two in the bottom of the inning from RBIs by Kernodle and Shenefelt.
Dartmouth punched back in the third, hitting Beasley for four singles and two runs and bringing the score to 3–2. The Tigers added three more in the bottom of the fifth to pull back, 5–3.
After sophomore pitcher Elliott Eaton threw three scoreless innings in relief of Beasley, he struggled in the seventh inning and the Big Green tied the game. Bradley turned to his best arms out of the bullpen next, bringing in senior relief ace Jacob Faulkner to hold the line.
Faulkner showed as usual, finishing the seventh and taking the Tigers through the eighth and ninth innings without surrendering a run. On the other side, the bats went, cold and the game stayed tied at five heading into extra innings.
As Faulkner continued to pitch into the 11th inning, the game officials turned their eyes skyward. Clarke Field, home to the Tigers, is a daylight-only field, without the lighting necessary for teams to play at night. When darkness began to fall at 6:56 p.m., the game was forced to be delayed until the next day.
“I definitely could’ve and certainly wanted to keep pitching,” Faulkner told the ‘Prince.’ “I was actually out on the mound getting ready for the next inning as the game got delayed, so I was 100 percent geared up for at least one more.”
The next day, both teams took the field in the top of the 12th inning early at 11:30 a.m. Faulkner was replaced by the Tigers’ other relief ace, junior Justin Kim. Kim has been dominant this season, carrying a team-leading 0.73 ERA into Sunday’s game after also pitching in the first game on Saturday.
“If we had a hall of fame, Faulkner and Kim would be first-ballot,” pitching coach Joe Haumacher told the ‘Prince.’ “79 percent of our wins in the last three seasons have had a ‘Faulkner’ or a ‘Kim’ in the box score. Not only do they do a great job, but they’ve made the guys around them better.”
Kim’s first two innings were more of the same, working around just one single and surrendering no runs. Again and again, Kim and Faulkner gave the Tigers the chance to break the tie and walk it off, but they left the bases loaded in the 12th and two runners on in the 13th.
“Justin Kim was the MVP of the weekend," Bradley told the ‘Prince.’ “After a three inning save in game one, he sent us a text on Sunday morning letting us know that he had a few innings left in his arm.” Bradley trusted Kim and was promptly rewarded.
After Kim gave up a rare run in the top of the 14th, Princeton’s bats came to life. Koonin stepped to the plate after two infield singles and an error loaded the bases with no out. On a 1–1 count, the righty stepped into an outside slider and pulled it down the left field line. As the ball rolled into the corner, two runners scored and the jubilant Tigers celebrated.
WALK IT OFF @JakeKoonin24 🤯📺ESPN+ pic.twitter.com/jIY0RoNctD
After an exciting second game, the series finale was the opposite. Dartmouth’s pitching staff conceded twelve walks, allowing the Tigers to round the bases in a slow-motion carousel of sorts.
On the pitching side, first-year Liam Kineen turned in the best outing of his young career. Facing the Big Green, Kineen threw seven shutout innings, setting career bests in innings pitched and runs allowed while tying his high of four strikeouts.
“The game plan this weekend was early contact against Dartmouth’s lineup,” Haumacher told the ‘Prince,’ citing the cold weather as a reason for this strategy. “In an environment like this, ramping up pitch counts to avoid contact only means trouble as the pitcher tires out and the fielders lose their spark standing in the cold.”
When the dust settled, the Tigers completed the sweep with an 8–1 victory. Next up for Princeton is a midweek game against Rutgers, followed by a crucial weekend series at home against Columbia, where the Lions will look for revenge after their Ivy League Tournament loss to the Tigers last year.
“This was a great weekend for us,” Bradley told the ‘Prince.’ “We still need the offense to improve, but we put more balls in play and had a number of big two-out hits.”
Joe Uglialoro is an assistant Sports editor for the 'Prince'.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.The Davis International Center (Davis IC), Princeton’s center for international students and scholars, advised non-U.S. citizens at Princeton to carry their I-94 forms and “exercise caution” with regards to international travel, in an email sent on Friday. The email also warned students to “be mindful that electronic devices are subject to search when entering the US,” including social media activity.
The I-94 form, also known as an Arrival-Departure Record Card, is a form used by U.S. Customs and Border Protection to track the arrival and departure of non-citizens, and it contains proof of legal entry and allowed stay time. The document is given to all holders of sponsored visas, but not green card holders.
The advice comes the same day as new U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) guidance, which reflects a Jan. 20 executive order from President Donald Trump requiring all non-citizens 14 years or older to register their status with the government. According to USCIS, “Once an alien has registered and appeared for fingerprinting (unless waived), DHS will issue evidence of registration, which aliens over the age of 18 must carry and keep in their personal possession at all times.”
According to the email from the Davis IC, “it appears that students and scholars [on nonimmigrant visas] should already be considered ‘registered’ by virtue of admission to the U.S. and issuance of an I-94,” but the details of the registration process currently remain unclear.
“We are reviewing the new registration process, and we hope that the government will clarify the details in the coming weeks,” the email reads.
It is also unknown at this time if or how the registration requirement will affect green card holders.
This message is the first piece of concrete advice sent to all international members of the University community at Princeton, and comes as the Trump administration takes a hardline against immigration that has caused much fear and uncertainty on college campuses nationwide.
Earlier this week, a French scientist was detained upon entry to the U.S. after messages critical of the administration were found in his phone. Additionally, Mahmoud Khalil, a recent graduate of Columbia University and green-card holder, was arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement due to being considered a threat to national security for his role in Columbia’s pro-Palestine protests. At Cornell, a student from Gambia was asked by ICE to turn himself in for leading pro-Palestine protests.
On a global scale, countries are updating their travel advisories to reflect changes in U.S. policy. Following the detention of several German nationals, German authorities updated its travel advisory to the United States. The United Kingdom has also revised its travel guidance in the past several weeks for any travelers planning to visit the U.S.
In January, as other schools advised students to return before Trump’s inauguration, the Davis IC issued no such warning. Davis IC Director Albert Rivera did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The email ended with notice of virtual attorney sessions, open to all, that the Davis IC is hosting on March 26. “Attorney Session: An Update on U.S. Immigration Issues” will be held at 12:30 p.m., and “Immigration Do’s and Don’ts & How to Prepare” at 8 p.m.
Christopher Bao is a head News editor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Princeton, N.J. and typically covers town politics and life.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.Senior wrestler Luke Stout and his younger brother Mac Stout, a redshirt sophomore at the University of Pittsburgh, went toe to toe at the NCAA wrestling tournament on March 20, becoming the first brothers to face off in the tournament’s history.
“Wrestling has been a huge part of our life and has given us so much opportunity,” Mac said in an interview with The Daily Princetonian. “It was hard to see that in the beginning, but … we did something really cool, and I think it’s something that ultimately did bring us closer.”
A week before the start of the tournament, the brackets for each weight class were released, and the brothers discovered that they would meet in the second round if they both won their first match. They began receiving messages like “you guys gonna flip a coin?” and “you gonna have to forfeit because you’re older?”, according to Luke.
The Stout brothers talked about their potential match following the bracket release. “It’s just a match, no big deal,” Mac recalled them discussing on the call. “And we just brushed over it, and that was really all it was.”
In reality, however, one wrestler would lose and be taken out of the championship bracket, making it impossible to win the 197-pound weight class. “Somebody’s goals and dreams are not moving past that match,” Head Coach Joe Dubuque said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’
When NCAAs arrived, both brothers won their first matches, and the stage was set. Before the match, Dubuque talked with Luke about his strategy and mentality facing his brother. Dubuque recalled saying, “Don’t make it out to be bigger than it is; it’s a wrestling match.When you look back 10 years from now, you guys [are] going to laugh about this.”
For the athletes, this matchup was nothing new. Growing up, Luke and Mac competed on many of the same wrestling teams and even practiced on their basement mat.
The sixth-seeded Mac jumped out to a 4–1 lead in points by the middle of the second period. The 11th seeded Luke pushed back in the third period after gaining a point for an escape from the bottom opening position.
Luke continued to be the aggressor for the last two minutes of the match, but the senior was never able to get his younger brother to the mat. Mac wrestled conservatively to preserve his lead, even risking giving up points for stalling.
When the match ended, Mac won with a final score of 4–2, and the brothers embraced on the mat. Although his season and wrestling career would soon be over, Luke remembers being proud of his younger brother.
“I was just honestly so happy for him,” Luke said. “I wanted to be at the top of the podium and win every match, but after I lost, I just wanted him to go and reach as high as he could on the podium.”
Mac had mixed emotions coming off the mat knowing that his brother would be unable to advance in the championship bracket and make it to the podium, describing the moment as “bittersweet,” adding, “I could feel how happy he was for me, and that meant a lot.”
In support of the Stout brothers, many family members, including grandparents, cousins, uncles, aunts, and other friends, came to watch.
Princeton’s wrestling team brought a total of five wrestlers to NCAAs, with all athletes winning their first rounds and advancing to the Friday matches. The final team ranking was 42.
Dubuque said, “[Returning and new athletes] combined with the coaching staff that I have next to me — there’s no reason why Princeton wrestling can’t be Ivy League champs and why we can’t be a top 10 program consistently moving forward.”
Devon Rudolph is an associate News editor and staff Sports writer for the ‘Prince.
Please direct any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
I am writing in my personal capacity as the former President of the Interclub Council to give the University some feedback on an important matter they are currently reviewing. From late 2023 to early 2024, the University hired an outside consulting firm, Huron Consulting Group, to examine the housing and dining undergraduate experience. Last summer, the Huron Group quietly released a 25-page report detailing their findings. The report is as opaque with its methodology as it is sweeping in the scope of its recommendations, the most extreme of which is a proposal on the last page to require all students who reside on campus to purchase a campus dining meal plan — including juniors and seniors currently on an eating club contract.
This course of action would be harmful to the undergraduate experience and poses an existential threat to the eating clubs, potentially forcing many into financial ruin. If implemented, the report’s recommendation would sever past and present generations of Princetonians from their unique and tight-knit communities, reverse decades of progress towards diversity in the clubs, and throw the undergraduate dining system into disarray. I respectfully call on the administration to disavow this course of action, since the relationship between the University and the eating clubs is ultimately one of mutual benefit.
The eating clubs play a vital role in nurturing Princeton’s undergraduate and alumni communities. The Huron Report itself emphasized that “students who are a part of [an] eating club are more satisfied than those who identify as Independent or have selected a meal plan.” The eating clubs provide a convenient location to eat, as well as a vibrant campus social scene with robust safety measures, including hiring professional bouncers, running SHARE training for members, partnering with PSafe, and defining policies around after-dark events. The rich and longstanding history of the eating clubs also helps members feel a sense of investment in a beloved campus tradition. There’s a reason Princeton has the most loyal alumni in the Ivy League — long after graduation, students who were in eating clubs have a lifelong home on campus to come back to.
However, requiring all juniors and seniors to purchase a campus dining meal plan would threaten these benefits. Few Princetonians would be able to afford both their eating club fees and a campus meal plan, so requiring such a plan is tantamount to forcing most students to give up their eating club memberships. Notably, the Huron Report does not recommend that the University readjust their increased food budget for juniors and seniors to be higher, which could shield students on financial aid from the worst of the effects. With a decimated pool of potential members, most if not all eating clubs would simply not be able to continue operation — especially in the face of sky-high property taxes, multiple forms of insurance, and rising inflation in the food industry.
The report is, at the moment, a recommendation. But the stakes are high. Every time in the past a club has closed on the Street has been a heartbreaking experience for its undergraduate and alumni members. In particular, stripping alumni of their “home away from home” at Princeton would lessen their connection to campus and the University. According to the Huron Report itself, “Alumni eating club members expressed a high degree of affinity for their club, describing it as a defining element of the residential experience. The eating clubs were cited as motivators for alumni to return to campus.” This is due in no small part to the fiercely proud and tight-knit communities we are able to form at the eating clubs, which remain near and dear to alumni hearts even decades after they graduate.
Furthermore, following the Huron Report’s recommendation would reverse decades of painstaking and fruitful progress on eating club diversity. The eating clubs today are more diverse in terms of race, gender, and socioeconomic background than they have ever been before. But if all students were required to purchase a campus dining plan, only the most wealthy and privileged Princetonians would be able to afford an eating club membership on top of it. Instead of being able to serve large majorities of Princeton’s student population, the clubs would only be able to cater to the “one percent,” turning into regressive and anachronistic versions of themselves that nobody, especially the current and increasingly diverse membership of the clubs, wants them to be.
Lastly, requiring all juniors and seniors to purchase campus dining plans would negatively impact the general undergraduate dining experience, including first-years and sophomores, as well as the students who choose to remain on a dining hall plan in their upperclass years. The current dining hall options are already crowded, with long lines winding through the serveries and teeming with unfamiliar faces. Jamming several thousand additional juniors and seniors into an already overburdened and crowded campus dining system would exacerbate these issues, no matter how many gleaming new dining halls rise at Hobson or other farther locations.
Both of us, the University and the eating clubs, ultimately share the same goal: making the undergraduate experience as enriching and rewarding as possible and fostering an enthusiastic and involved alumni community. Adopting the Huron Report’s recommendation to force every student to purchase a campus dining meal plan, even if they have another full meal plan, would be counterproductive to that mutual goal. It would take away one of the most beloved Princeton traditions, reversing decades of progress and worsening the Princeton experience for all students, regardless of whether they participate in an eating club. I am, respectfully, offering my advice to the University to reject this ill-conceived recommendation.
Vincent Jiang ’25 is the President Emeritus of the Interclub Council, the organization composed of the eleven undergraduate eating club presidents at Princeton University. He can be reached at vincentjiang[at]princeton.edu.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.The men’s and women’s track and field teams kicked off their outdoor seasons on Saturday in Philadelphia. Hosted by the University of Pennsylvania and featuring seven neighboring schools, the Penn Challenge saw Princeton win six events in the men’s competition and three in the women’s, with personal bests across the board.
“We had a great first meet,” men’s Head Coach Jason Vigilante told The Daily Princetonian. “Anytime you can get sunshine and relatively warm weather in March for an outdoor track meet, we feel really fortunate.”
And although the Penn Challenge felt “kind of like a glorified training opportunity” according to women’s track and field Head Coach Michelle Eisenreich, it marks the beginning of a potentially historic season in Princeton track and field.
A triple crown occurs when a team wins all three championships — cross country and both indoor and outdoor track and field — in the same season. Following their Ivy League sweeps in cross country and indoor track and field, the Tigers are eyeing a possible triple crown for both the men’s and women’s teams, which has only been done once in history — by the Tigers in 2011.
“When cross country won their championship in the fall and set the team on course to go for a triple crown, I think that fired everybody up,” Eisenreich told the ‘Prince.’ “It’s only been done three times in Ivy League history on the women’s side, and so this would be huge, it would just be one more addition to an already historic season.”
On the men’s side, Princeton has recently dominated this field of athletics, winning not just nine outdoor titles since 2010 but an incredible seven triple crowns in that same period. The team is looking to win consecutive triple crowns for the third time in their history.
“Cross country, we got that done, and we beat a great Harvard squad, and we had the largest margin of victory at the Ivy League indoor championship,” Vigilante said. “And then for this one, the outdoor meet, it’s exciting for us, because it’s potentially the second triple crown in a row.”
On the other hand, the women’s team is seeking revenge for last year, when they lost the outdoor title to their rival Penn by a heart-breaking half-point difference at the Ivy League Heptagonal Championship (Heps). The women have not won Outdoor Heps since 2011, also the last time they won the triple crown. This season already marks a significant comeback, having won their first cross country title since 2015 and their first indoor title since 2011.
“It’s been a big, big push to try to get over the hump,” Eisenreich noted. “Last year, having gotten so close within a half point of winning it outdoors, it was a bit of a heartbreaker, but also at the same time, a huge motivator, and the team came back, really on a mission to make sure that we accomplish our goal of winning a championship.”
The women’s first victory on Saturday came in the 100-meter dash, where junior sprinter Maisha Atkinson set a new personal record of 11.90 seconds, defeating Penn State’s Lauren Princz by a full tenth of a second. It was also first-year Jana Ter Wee’s outdoor collegiate debut, an exciting moment as she won her first-ever event, the shot put.
“It was my first-ever hammer meet, and I was very happy with the technique that I produced during the meet,” Ter Wee wrote to the ‘Prince.’ “Our Penn Challenge meet performance makes me very excited for this outdoor season.”
The Tigers also won the women’s 4x400 meters relay, with senior Adelaide Asante, sophomore Shantell Kwofie, senior Lauren Harris, and Atkinson sharing the baton in a 3:50.5 finish. Kwofie also displayed her versatility at the meet, recording her personal best in the javelin throw while finishing second in the 400 meters hurdles.
“All the meets leading up [to Heps] are opportunities for us to continue to grow and continue to improve, both individually and as a team,” Eisenreich said. “We really look forward to, you know, opportunities to express our strengths.”
On the men’s side, junior Casey Helm also showed his talent in multiple events, winning both the discus throw and the shot put, the former of which was a new personal record and one of the best marks in the country. On Tuesday, Helm was named the Ivy League Men’s Athlete of the Week.
“It was great to be back outside and compete,” Helm wrote to the ‘Prince.’ “Overall, I was happy with the weekend; it was a great start to the season.”
The Tigers absolutely dominated the men’s 100-meter dash, claiming all of the first four positions: first-year Jadon Spain in first (10.53), sophomore Zach Della Rocca in second (10.68), sophomore Charles Sexton in third (10.77), and first-year Paul Kuhner in fourth (10.90).
“It was great to see Della Rocca and Charlie Sexton compete outdoors,” Vigilante commented. “They missed the indoor season, so I was very happy with the start of the season.”
Princeton followed suit by sweeping the first three places in the men’s 200-meter dash: junior Easton Tan (21.71), sophomore Kavon Miller (21.80), and first-year Karl Dietz (22.02). Finally, first-year Avery Keith narrowly edged out his teammate, sophomore Christian Groendyk, by 0.24 seconds in the 3000 meters steeplechase.
“You know, it’s the first meet of the year … we try to have a whole season of build up to a great performance at the Ivy League Championships,” Vigilante said. “So I think we had a great start, but it’s keeping everybody healthy and focused throughout the whole year, and then it all happens on one weekend — the championship.”
The Tigers will have another trip to the Monmouth Season Opener this weekend, before hosting the Sam Howell Invitational on Saturday, April 5. Every meet will be an opportunity for the Orange and Black to build towards potentially reclaiming their 2011 glory, when both teams won the triple crown.
Bryant Figueroa is an assistant Sports editor for the ‘Prince’.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the authors’ views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
Columbia University appears to have given in to the government’s anti-constitutional  and autocratic attack on free speech and the rule of law. In the face of Project 2025-inspired demands from the Trump administration, Columbia expelled students and revoked degrees. On Friday, they announced further concessions, including, most concerningly to us, the removal of academic self-governance from the Department of Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies.
After all of this, the restoration of $400 million in research grants, including lifesaving clinical trials and training grants for postdocs and students, is still not guaranteed. And as President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 has aptly put it, “once you make concessions once, it’s hard not to make them again.”
It may be easy to label Columbia’s actions as capitulation. However, when the full force of the U.S. government is set against any single institution, resistance is difficult.
But it’s not just Columbia. Princeton, along with 59 others, is on a list of universities targeted by the administration. President Eisgruber has started the pushback, standing up on behalf of academic freedom and saying that the Trump administration is attacking higher education. Professors, students, other universities, and the public should join him: When targeting one institution is a bald attempt to divide and conquer, as is the case with Columbia, it is essential for a coalition or group of institutions and individuals to stand up together.
Threats to university research directly affect student opportunity. Here at Princeton, students can work with world-class scientists and scholars, opening gateways to medical and graduate schools. If labs close, that opportunity shrinks: Students will have fewer opportunities to do research and build their futures.
The recent hiring freeze here at Princeton and at peer institutions such as Harvard and Penn is an early warning sign. Elsewhere, graduate schools are rescinding offers to college seniors. The damage threatens to encompass all fields including social sciences, engineering, and humanities, devaluing the degrees all students are working toward.
Do not be fooled by those who wish to use impassioned debates within higher education as a means of driving us apart. Last year Congressional Republicans used the war in Gaza and the ensuing student protests as a wedge. Now, inspired by strategists like Christopher Rufo, the administration is going after programs with words like “diversity.” They will continue to look for points of legitimate disagreement, then lean into those points to advance autocracy.
Some values transcend ideology or party. Colleges and universities have been a pillar of American strength throughout Democratic and Republican governments over the last hundred years. That pillar is now under threat as part of a broader attack on a law-based society, and as part of a larger assault on institutions, from Social Security to flight safety.
As Lee Bollinger, former president of Columbia and the University of Michigan, has put it, we are in the midst of an authoritarian takeover. In the midst of this, standing up for higher education is part of a larger defense of the whole nation’s well-being and the rules-based system that has allowed the nation to prosper.
Some may be apprehensive of speaking out in isolation. However, there is no reward for obeying in advance. A successful response requires action, together. In Erica Chenoweth and Maria J. Stephan’s work on nonviolent movements around the world, they found that if a movement spreads to even a few percent of the population, success becomes more likely than not. Furthermore, there are network effects: 10 times as many people can potentially make 100 times the impact. Just like individuals, when colleges and universities work together, they will be stronger.
Indeed, for maximum effect, higher education will have to find as many allies as possible. We can enlist everyone who has benefited from publicly-funded research, including treatments for cancer and childhood illnesses, batteries, HDTV, the Internet, weather forecasting, and more. We must remind the public that the discoveries of research translate basic science to health, prosperity, and security, touching billions. Without protection from the public, this accumulated capacity for greatness won’t survive the illegal assaults on our education system.
President Eisgruber wrote that Princeton and other institutions should engage in “forceful litigation.” But he has institutional responsibilities, both at Princeton and his role at the Association of American Universities, that limit what he can say or do. That is where the rest of us come in.
We scholars cannot let the government hold our work hostage. Science funding is being withheld in retaliation for protected free speech. We are passionate about science and its benefits to society, but we fear more what will happen if we do not help defend everyone’s fundamental rights. Freedom of expression and inquiry come first. If we lose these, we are at risk of losing not only science, but the entire educational enterprise — and broader freedoms in all society. In another sector, some big law firms are defending themselves. Like them, we must speak out for both ourselves and for society.
Finally: Students, we urge you to do your part. Use your critical thinking skills, and notice that institutions are letting us down. As faculty, our methods of communication involve paragraphs. Through new media like TikTok, you can craft compelling messages about science, learning, and freedom. Go in person to protest against the external threat. Use your freedom. Use your power.
We must not shrink from this moment. We hope that President Eisgruber’s example is amplified by all of us, for the sake of Princeton, Columbia, and the nation.
Sam Wang is a professor of Neuroscience. He can be reached at sswang[at]princeton.edu.
Andrew Leifer is an associate professor of Neuroscience and Physics. Jonathan Pillow, David Tank, and Ilana Witten are professors of Neuroscience.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.The Princeton University women’s swimming and diving team concluded a historic showing at the 2025 NCAA Championships at Weyerhaeuser King County Aquatics Center in Federal Way, Washington from March 19–22. This championship was highlighted by All-American Honorable Mentions for sophomores Eleanor Sun and Dakota Tucker in the 400 Individual Medley (IM) — the program’s first All-Americans since 2014. This marks the first time since 2010 that Princeton has had multiple All-Americans in a single season.
“Eleanor and I have been by each other's side ever since we both joined Princeton, and I am grateful that we both got to experience this achievement together!” Tucker wrote to The Daily Princetonian.
The competition kicked off with the 800-yard freestyle relay on Wednesday, where junior Sabrina Johnston, first-year Jenna Walters, junior Heidi Smithwick, and Sun posted a time of 7:06.40, finishing in 24th place.
On Thursday, Sun placed 20th in the 200 IM prelims, clocking in at 1:55.91, while Smithwick competed in the 500-yard freestyle prelims, finishing with a time of 4:47.44 in 59th place.
In diving, junior Charlotte Martinkus placed 33rd in the 1M event with a score of 252.35 and 39th in the 3M event with a score of 264.80.
Martinkus shared with the ‘Prince’ that the challenge going into a meet so late in the season is difficulty staying “strong and clear-headed going into competitions when you have done so many throughout the season. But the fact that it is the last one is what gives you the power to get through it. Besides the fatigue, the adrenaline of the environment and being so close to such amazing divers was energizing and extremely exciting.”
Princeton wrapped up the day with a 200-yard freestyle relay team featuring Johnston, senior Ella Noble, sophomore Veronique Rossouw, and Smithwick, finishing in 1:29.46, which was good for 28th place.
Friday saw standout performances in the 400 IM prelims, with Sun and Tucker qualifying for the consolation finals with times of 4:06.01 and 4:07.07, respectively.
“The prelim swim that I had was a lifetime best,” Tucker wrote. “My mindset going into the final was just to go out there and have fun and enjoy the experience.”
“To be in the finals at NCAAs in the first place is an incredible achievement for any collegiate swimmer, but to be able to be in the final with your teammate and be next to them in that final is something very special,” she added.
In the finals, Sun placed 12th with 4:05.73, while Tucker secured 16th with 4:08.96, earning them All-American Honorable Mentions.
“The 400 IM is never the easiest race to get through, and I was definitely feeling it at finals.” Sun wrote to the ‘Prince.’ “I like to go out with easy speed in the [butter]fly, and then stay strong and arm-heavy in the backstroke. The difference maker in finals was definitely my freestyle — in the past year or two I have gained a lot of confidence in it and my ability to close a race.”
On Saturday, Tucker competed in the 200 breaststroke prelims, finishing in 51st place with a time of 2:12.97, while Sun swam in her third race alongside her teammate Smithwick in the 200 butterfly prelims, posting times of 1:55.94 and 1:55.80 respectively. Sun finished in 32nd place while Smithwick finished slightly ahead in 30th place.
“I’m a big believer in training for a broad range of events, because it keeps it interesting and helps the nerves to not focus too hard on one event,” Sun wrote to the ‘Prince.’ “During dual meets, I’m used to swimming three to four events in a short span of time.”
With the 2025 NCAA Championships in the books, Princeton concludes a historic season that saw the Tigers win their third consecutive Ivy League title, achieve multiple All-America honors, and set new program records. The Tigers will look to build on this momentum heading into next season, with their sights set on continued dominance in the Ivy League and beyond.
“I’m going to have a little break to reset now, but I think there’s always more to strive for,” Sun said. “I’m already excited to get back to work to reach higher goals both for myself and our team.”
Matthew Yi is an assistant Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 was irked at the unscripted questions.
At the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) meeting on Monday, Eisgruber was confronted with queries on the Trump administration and University governance from several students who had skirted the committee’s rules on submitting questions on advance.
The first question came from Vasanth Visweswaran ’28, who asked Eisgruber how he could use his position as chair of the Association of American Universities (AAU) to “defend all members of the University community from the recent Trump administration attacks on free speech, funding cuts and threats for deportations.”
“That’s not the question you submitted,” Eisgruber immediately responded. “Look, I’m gonna answer as best I can,” he continued.
“I think it is very important that we speak up about the good that higher education and universities do in our society,” Eisgruber said. He highlighted his roles as the board chair of the Association of American Universities and president of the University in defending the importance of higher education, citing an article he published in The Atlantic on March 19 condemning federal funding cuts at Columbia.
“I think that’s very different from opposing particular government officials or an administration,” he said in reference to defending universities.
“I would hope that anyone who takes a stand about wanting America to be great, [recognizes] that part of America’s greatness depends on the greatness of our research universities,” Eisgruber continued.
Historically, Eisgruber has embraced his role as a voice for higher education and the University — defending affirmative action or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients in Washington, for example. He also recently appeared on PBS News to discuss the implications of Columbia University’s policy responses to the Trump administration. On campus, however, Eisgruber characterizes himself as an administrator, not a politician.
The awkward exchange between administrator and student activist was unusual for a meeting that is typically procedurally rigid. Eisgruber’s responses were largely consistent with his restrained style and insistence on respecting University procedure.
The next question came from Rowan Johnson ’27, and was also unscripted.
“Will you be able to promise that you will not capitulate to the anti-democratic demands of the Trump administration, like the administration of Columbia University has done?” Johnson asked.
Eisgruber objected similarly. “These questions are not the questions that came in, you guys ... I think it’s important that we hold to the procedures,” he continued. However, he did engage with the question, adding, “I will just say that Princeton University will stand firm for its values and mission.”
The final question was asked by Zach Goldberg ’28. “I hope this is the question that you submitted in advance,” said Eisgruber.
Goldberg answered in affirmation, beginning with, “this ought to resemble the question we submitted in advance.” Goldberg then expressed concern over recent Environmental Protection Agency plans, Immigration and Customs Enforcement deportations, and cuts to National Institute of Health funding, amid a slew of executive orders in the first few months of the Trump Administration.
“Will the University commit to giving students a real seat at the table when these decisions are made?” asked Goldberg.
“Again, that question doesn’t resemble one that at least was shared,” Eisgruber responded. He then praised the CPUC as a body that honors student involvement in University discourse. “The body we have right here is a body which is rare in higher education, in being one that allows for open deliberation and discussion of difficult issues in the University,” Eisgruber said.
Goldberg began to reply when Eisgruber added, “No, I’m not actually going to allow a follow up, because that question itself wasn’t submitted to us.”
Goldberg then called out to the crowd, “So, we will not have a seat at the table” as student members of Sunrise Princeton stood up and filed out of the meeting.
Eisgruber continued to the next item on the agenda, an update from the Resources Committee given by Jay Groves, the Hugh Stott Taylor Chair of Chemistry and Chair of Research. The update focused on a report of the Resources Committee’s decision earlier this month not to recommend dissociation to the Board of Trustees.
Next was Associate Provost for Institutional Diversity and Inclusion, Sean Maxim’s presentation on the annual Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Annual Report. “Princeton remains committed to our values of diversity and inclusion,” Maxim said, echoing Esigruber’s sentiments from last month's CPUC meeting.
USG President Enzo Kho ’26 and GSG President Amari Tankard both gave short presentations reviewing their goals and planned initiatives for their respective terms.
The next CPUC meeting will be May 5.
Nikki Han contributed reporting.
Cynthia Torres is an assistant News editor and an Archives contributor. She is from New Bedford, MA. and typically covers University administration.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.“Brett’s a head coach,” Head Coach Mitch Henderson ’98 said of Associate Head Coach Brett MacConnell two years ago in an interview at Jadwin Gym after the Tigers defeated No. 2 seed Arizona and No. 7 seed Missouri in the same weekend to reach the Sweet 16.
Just two years later, MacConnell and assistant coach Lawrence Rowley have been asked not to return to the Tiger bench following a tumultuous season that saw the Tigers eliminated in the Ivy Madness semifinals despite being picked as the overwhelming preseason favorite to play in the NCAA tournament. While the news has not been announced by the athletics department, The Daily Princetonian was able to independently verify the information from sources close to the team.
Associate Director of Athletics for Communications Chas Dorman would not comment specifically on personnel matters other than to confirm that currently all members of the men’s basketball coaching staff are employed by the University.
The ‘Prince’ independently verified that MacConnell's contract is not expected to be renewed and Rowley is not expected to be retained for the 2025-2026 season.
MacConnell has served as the team's recruiting coordinator since 2013, proving impactful in shaping the program’s identity and the team’s recent successes. Junior stars Xaivian Lee and Caden Pierce as well Tosan Evbuomwan ’23, Jaelin Llewellyn ’22,  Devin Cannady ’19, and Zach Martini ’24 all have something in common: getting recruited by MacConnell.
MacConnell flew out to Leicestershire, England to watch Evbuomwan, giving him an offer despite his team getting blown out. Princeton was the only Division I school to respond to Evbuomwan, now the NBA’s only Ivy Leaguer.
He took a chance on Lee, an unheralded recruit in high school who has blossomed into an NBA prospect, and Martini, who received his first Division I offer from MacConnell.
MacConnell was also invited to Silver Waves Media’s Elite 75 Future Head Coach Power Lunch, an event that highlights potential future Division 1 head coaches at this year’s Final Four in San Antonio.
Rowley, meanwhile has been with Princeton since the 2022 season. From 2018 to 2021, Rowley played Division III basketball at Emory University before his senior season was cancelled due to COVID-19.
After graduating in 2021, Rowley spent a year at The College of New Jersey as a graduate assistant coach. The Lions went 10–14 overall that season, and the next year Rowley joined the Tigers’ coaching staff.
Since 2022, Rowley has been an assistant coach for Princeton, helping develop stars like Lee and Pierce. He contributed to a three-year stretch where the Tigers won 66 of 91 games and 30 of 42 in the Ivy League.
The coaching changes raise questions about the future of the Princeton basketball program. With the transfer portal now open, concerns about roster changes are also likely to pop up. In the new era of Name, Image, and Likeness (NIL) in college sports, star players Xaivian Lee and Caden Pierce are bound to be offered six-figure deals to leave Princeton. But NIL is not limited to these players, and others on the team may be tempted to consider the portal.
After a season marked by unmet expectations, these coaching changes add uncertainty to the offseason for Princeton basketball.
Doug Schwartz is an associate Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.The Davis International Center (Davis IC), Princeton’s center for international students and scholars, advised non-U.S. citizens at Princeton to carry their I-94 forms and “exercise caution” with regards to international travel, in an email sent on Friday. The email also warned students to “be mindful that electronic devices are subject to search when entering the US,” including social media activity.
The I-94 form, also known as an Arrival-Departure Record Card, is a form used by U.S. Customs and Border Protection to track the arrival and departure of non-citizens, and it contains proof of legal entry and allowed stay time. The document is given to all holders of sponsored visas, but not green card holders.
The advice comes the same day as new U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) guidance, which reflects a Jan. 20 executive order from President Donald Trump requiring all non-citizens 14 years or older to register their status with the government. According to USCIS, “Once an alien has registered and appeared for fingerprinting (unless waived), DHS will issue evidence of registration, which aliens over the age of 18 must carry and keep in their personal possession at all times.”
According to the email from the Davis IC, “it appears that students and scholars [on nonimmigrant visas] should already be considered ‘registered’ by virtue of admission to the U.S. and issuance of an I-94,” but the details of the registration process currently remain unclear.
“We are reviewing the new registration process, and we hope that the government will clarify the details in the coming weeks,” the email reads.
It is also unknown at this time if or how the registration requirement will affect green card holders.
This message is the first piece of concrete advice sent to all international members of the University community at Princeton, and comes as the Trump administration takes a hardline against immigration that has caused much fear and uncertainty on college campuses nationwide.
Earlier this week, a French scientist was detained upon entry to the U.S. after messages critical of the administration were found in his phone. Additionally, Mahmoud Khalil, a recent graduate of Columbia University and green-card holder, was arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement due to being considered a threat to national security for his role in Columbia’s pro-Palestine protests. At Cornell, a student from Gambia was asked by ICE to turn himself in for leading pro-Palestine protests.
On a global scale, countries are updating their travel advisories to reflect changes in U.S. policy. Following the detention of several German nationals, German authorities updated its travel advisory to the United States. The United Kingdom has also revised its travel guidance in the past several weeks for any travelers planning to visit the U.S.
In January, as other schools advised students to return before Trump’s inauguration, the Davis IC issued no such warning. Davis IC Director Albert Rivera did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The email ended with notice of virtual attorney sessions, open to all, that the Davis IC is hosting on March 26. “Attorney Session: An Update on U.S. Immigration Issues” will be held at 12:30 p.m., and “Immigration Do’s and Don’ts & How to Prepare” at 8 p.m.
Christopher Bao is a head News editor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Princeton, N.J. and typically covers town politics and life.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.Nearly 18 months after its conception, the physical location of the New Jersey AI Hub is almost complete near Route 1.
The AI Hub began as a collaboration between Princeton and the New Jersey Economic Development Association. Microsoft, a leader in AI, and CoreWeave, a Livingston-based startup aiming to deploy AI at scale, joined Princeton and New Jersey as founding partners in January 2025. These four partners will serve to advance the AI Hub’s three pillars: promoting AI research, commercializing and accelerating innovation, and strengthening and scaling AI education.
The AI hub is now looking for its leader. After more than a year and a half, the University and the founders of the AI Hub are currently searching for an executive director.
“There’s such alignment across what all of us want to do with the AI hub that really the Executive Director will come on board … to bring the vision to life,” said Princeton Vice President and Secretary Hilary Parker.
The position opened on Feb. 25. According to Parker, the executive director of the AI Hub will be a University employee who works closely with the governing board of the AI Hub, which will include members from each of those founding organizations.
For Princeton’s part, Provost Jennifer Rexford ’91 noted that many administrators are involved, including Vice Dean for Innovation Craig Arnold, outgoing Dean of Engineering Andrea Goldsmith, and Office of State Affairs Assistant Vice President David Reiner. Senior Strategic AI Hub Project Manager Jeffrey Oakman GS ’03 was “brought on specifically to focus on driving a lot of this work,” Rexford noted.
Hiring of staff will continue once the corporate partners move into the physical space. CoreWeave currently has a team of three people working on this project.
The new hub will be located in West Windsor along Route 1, an eight-minute drive from Nassau Hall. Despite the 40-minute walk from campus, University leaders involved in the project promise that faculty and students will receive benefits as well.
According to Rexford, the AI Hub will allow students and faculty to transfer their ideas to local industries, for example, by providing guidance for ideas that students may not realize could solve problems for “pharma companies or a telecom company.”
Corey Sanders ’04 is CoreWeave Senior Vice President of Strategy and a Visiting Lecturer in the Department of Computer Science. Sanders described plans to launch a set of summer internships at the AI Hub for students. He said that he hopes that the internships will “strengthen the AI education component” and “enable growth and development of the workforce” in the state.
When asked when the internships would begin, Sanders said, “The goal would be as soon as possible.” He continued, “We need to move quickly with the launch of the AI Hub.”
“What we gain to benefit is the tide that lifts all boats,” Sanders said. He explained, “The opportunity to improve the workforce, the opportunity to develop and culture early-stage startups, the opportunity to take research from the top universities of the state and turn them into much more applicable technologies for the next generation of advancement.”
Sanders worked for Microsoft until January 2025. Each partner is focusing on a pillar of the AI hub — research, commercialization and accelerating innovation, education and training.
Mike Egan, Senior Director of TechSpark, a Microsoft program that assists startup ventures aimed at community improvement across the country, explained how the partners will be tackling these pillars.
Egan shared that the first pillar will be aimed at asking, “How do we take local companies, startups, small businesses and others, bring them into the lab, and have them think about AI? What can AI bring their company? How can they become more efficient? How can they integrate with AI?”
The second pillar will be the primary focus of CoreWeave, which Egan said will be aimed at asking, “Can we accelerate new companies, new startups, new businesses?”
The third pillar of the AI Hub will promote “workforce development and skilling (training),” which is something that TechSpark and Microsoft will primarily handle, Egan said.
Egan explained that this pillar is particularly focused on training students in community colleges across New Jersey. “We’ve already had some inroads with the New Jersey Community College Association, so we don’t want to limit it just to Princeton,” Egan said. He also shared that he expects Rutgers University to become a partner in the future. Rutgers currently has an Art and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory housed under their department of computer science and 11 faculty associated with AI.
Egan shared that once the Executive Director is chosen, TechSpark will also be hiring a manager who will help advance the third pillar of the AI Hub: workforce development.
“The TechSpark manager will serve both as a technology kind of liaison to Microsoft and all its resources, but also a real local community manager driving skilling across the state,” Egan said.
New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy has bigger hopes for the AI Hub, hoping that it will revitalize the New Jersey industry standards.
“New Jersey, through thick and thin … largely held on to the big corporate players,” Murphy said. “Where we lost our way, and we lost our way badly, was in the startup community.”
The AI hub is one of 10 Strategic Innovation Centers that the NJEDA has invested money into, hoping to catalyze industry in the Garden state by helping startup companies get off the ground with state-level assistance. According to Murphy, it is cheaper to “birth a new company” rather than try to incentivize companies to come to New Jersey “after they’ve already grown up.”
Microsoft President and University Trustee Brad Smith ’81 shared with the ‘Prince’ his understanding of the AI Hub as constantly evolving and adapting to meet current needs. “This has, in my view, the potential to have a very long and dynamic life,” said Smith. “It [the AI Hub], just like Princeton University, is never finished.”
Smith is also hopeful that the growing startup ecosystem of New Jersey will encourage startups to develop in the state.
According to a Feb. 2 press release from the NJEDA, the founding equity partners will collectively invest “over $72 million to support the long-term success of the AI Hub, including up to $25 million of non-binding commitment from the NJEDA.”
In an interview with ‘Prince,’ Murphy shared that, should other partners decide to invest, the N.J. Government “will match other partners’ financial commitments,” dollar for dollar, up to $25 million.
Though no exact date has been announced, according to Parker, the AI Hub will be up and running “within weeks.” There will be an official ribbon-cutting ceremony to commemorate the completion of the AI Hub’s physical location on Thursday, March 27, at 10 a.m.
“With the space ready, and events ready to plan, I think that there’s going to be a lot of activity that will kick off this Spring and then continue,” Parker said.
Egan shared that future sponsorship and alumni opportunities will arise once the AI Hub is up and running.
He explained, “I could see other sponsorship opportunities, where [other companies] could come in and run their own kind of clinic — their own kind of deep dive in a particular region … other kinds of engagements that they help sponsor with students and faculty at Princeton.”
Luke Grippo is a senior News writer and Features contributor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including Undergraduate Student Government, the Council of the Princeton University Community, and institutional legacy.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.“This is a big deal for me, to walk in a room and see my work,” said Sameer Khan h21, with his arms crossed in a soft gray quarter-zip, scanning the walls of Campus Club, the home of many of his photographs.
At Princeton, Khan can usually be found in the corners of a room with a camera, snapping pictures of new administrators around campus greenery or photographing campus events while joking with students. He currently works as a contracted photographer for many events run by the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students (ODUS) at Princeton, and he is the owner and founder of his photography company, Fotobuddy. Khan’s photos hang in Prospect House, Nassau Hall, and Campus Club.
A visible and invisible figure on campus, Khan and his camera have shaped some of the most integral parts of Princeton life.
Khan never wanted to be a photographer. It wasn’t until he joined The Daily Targum, Rutgers’ student newspaper, that he started taking photos. According to him, he only attended the first meeting because a friend didn’t want to go alone. Only a sophomore in college, Khan was asked to photograph an event without any prior experience.
“I show up, [and] they give me a camera. They say, ‘whatever you get is gonna be better than not having a photo,’” Khan recalled. “And I took a great shot.”
Khan’s editor was impressed. “You can teach a lot about photography,” they said, according to Khan, “but you can’t teach somebody composition — not the way that you’re seeing images.” That was the catalyst. From there, he became a photographer at the Targum, and occasionally wrote feature stories as well.
After graduation, Khan went into the corporate world, but tried to continue pursuing his passion for photography on the side. After a year, he started working with his former Rutgers editor on smaller political campaigns. In 2002, he finally had his “big break.”
Princeton’s School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA), at the time referred to as the Woodrow Wilson School of Public Policy, needed a photographer for an event. After the original photographer from Rutgers could no longer attend, they recommended Khan for the job.
“I show up,” said Khan. “[And] it’s Henry Kissinger.” Not what he expected, he noted.
The encounter was a turning point. Impressed by Khan’s work, SPIA invited him back. For the first few years with SPIA as his client, Khan photographed several of the department’s afternoon lectures.
“[I get] my first corporate client, and it’s Princeton University,” said Khan. “It was like [I had] bragging rights.”
In 2005, Khan convinced SPIA to let him photograph events for its 75th anniversary. “They could hire somebody local and take a chance, or spend a little bit more and hire me and get guaranteed results.”
In 2012, Khan started to photograph department and program events, but Princeton remained a small part of his business. However, in 2017, Khan got a chance to photograph an event hosted by the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students (ODUS), which would go on to become his biggest client at Princeton.
That was when Tom Dunne, former Deputy Dean for ODUS at Princeton and current Dean of Students at Harvard, caught wind of him.
“I remember distinctly looking at the images he delivered for that [ODUS] event, and he had some really amazing pictures in the balcony area of Richardson,” noted Dunne, a fellow photography enthusiast. “And I know how hard it is to shoot photos in that space.”
Once Dunne found out that Khan was a contracted photographer for the public policy school, and not part of the department, they began working together.
“Initially, it started out [that] we would conceptualize an event, and we’d have him come and cover it.” said Dunne. “But with his rapport and the way that he interacted with students, Sameer became a co-creator of some events.”
For example, the first day of classes photo with the “FDOC” banner was created with Khan’s contribution in mind. Today, it is a highly coveted photograph for a student at Princeton.
“He was more than just a contracted photographer,” said Dunne. “He, in many cases, became someone who was really closely working with our office and students in developing programs.”
Khan also became involved in the thesis photo, a longstanding Princeton tradition, helping to provide photos for students that may not have the funds to hire a photographer.
Khan has also influenced the very location of photos taken around campus. Today, many administrative portraits and student portraits are taken outside in the greenery of Princeton’s campus. Unbeknownst to many, it was Khan’s dislike of the “cold” studio setup that began this trend that now is prevalent in many a student and administrator portrait.
The COVID-19 pandemic, however, was a moment where Khan and Dunne’s collaborative efforts became concentrated on helping students connect to campus remotely.
Dunne and Khan worked together on the “Princeton is Wherever You Are” project, a collaboration between ODUS, the Class of 2021, and Khan.
“[The pandemic] was really challenging… especially at a place that I think has such a particular type of physical resonance,” said Dunne.
Khan had initially ideated the project, suggesting that he would photograph the students remotely, guiding their friends and roommates to take their photographs. After, the photo would be edited and placed somewhere in Princeton that was important to them.
Morgan Smith ’21 was one of the students who participated in the “Princeton is Wherever You Are” project.
“As someone who graduated in the Class of 2021, there’s often times where I feel like I was only at Princeton for three and a half years because of the COVID-2019 pandemic,” she noted.
“[Because of Khan’s work], I’m able to say four years, because it didn’t matter that we weren’t on campus anymore,” said Smith, recalling how Khan “coached” her sister to take Smith’s photo for the “Princeton is Wherever You Are” project.
“He really came through for us,” said Smith, “Especially when you think of photos as memorializing people in a place at a certain time. His ability to transcend that, I’ll always admire him for that.”
Khan’s impact on students reaches far and wide, and one of his favorite aspects of Princeton to photograph is student life.
“Everybody that goes through here is going to be something phenomenal one day,” he said. “All of you are folks that will change the world, and that’s kind of cool to see you in your developing stages.”
“He’s … generous with his time,” said Stephen Padlo ’25, who currently serves as the Treasurer for the Class of 2025. Padlo noted, along with Khan’s sense of humor, how “he’ll work overtime just because he loves his job and loves us.”
“[Sameer] captures the smiles outside of the bad days,” said D’Schon Simmons ’27, who serves as the president of the Class of 2027. “He serves as somebody who captures the moments that we can sometimes take for granted.”
“He documents student life like no other person on this campus does,” added Padlo, referencing the ODUS SmugMug page, where photos from many ODUS events are posted.
Khan said he envisions his relationships with students at Princeton in a similar light to his bond with his daughter, who is about to leave for college: Although they graduate and leave campus, they’re not really gone.
“When these students leave after four years, I’m gonna see them at Reunions,” he said. “That’s my hope.”
Khan also refers to his honorary membership  in the Class of 2021 as “one of the greatest things that’s ever happened to me.”
“My dad always would instill [in me] … ‘listen, it doesn’t matter how much money somebody pays you, but if they give you that title, they value you, because then everybody knows what you’ve earned.’”
“I felt like this was one way of being recognized as part of the campus community,” he noted. “I hang that plaque with pride in my house right next to the most expensive painting we have. Because to me, that has more value.”
This show of acceptance and recognition from the Class of 2021 helped Khan realize his effect on the Princeton community.
Smith was also a co-chair of the Class of 2021’s Class Day. “When I think of who an honorary class member should be,” said Smith, “It should be someone like him who has been there every step of the way.”
Especially because Khan played such a large role in creating the 2021 virtual Class Day, “getting to honor the person who helped to make that all happen ... it just made so much sense,” Smith said.
“I’ve realized that I’ve actually had a positive impact on people,” said Khan, “I never thought that way, and I think most photographers don’t think that way because we’re never recognized.”
Through his photography, Khan has also had the chance to connect with high-level Princeton administrators, share his craft, and build relationships. Even in rooms with actors, administrators, professors, and students alike, Khan’s approach remains similar.
Khan recalled the way in which a dean at the University summed his approach to photography. “When you approach a subject, you approach them on a very personal level, so they’re comfortable with you.” According to Khan, that skill is his strength.
Khan recalls taking this approach during his first of many sessions photographing President Christopher Eisgruber ’83.
“I asked him to sit on my case, and he looked at me, and I said, ‘It’s okay. I’ve had presidents of countries sit on this case. I’ve photographed a lot of famous people, but I’ve never been this nervous for a photo shoot.’ And he just chuckled and that was it. He was warm,” Khan recalled.
Eisgruber commented in writing to the ‘Prince’ on his relationship with Khan. “I trust him,” he wrote, “and I’ve learned to do whatever he says — whether he’s telling me to smile more, turn slightly to the right, or adjust my jacket pocket.”
“He is creative, he pays attention to every detail, and his sense of humor makes him a pleasure to work with,” Eisgruber wrote.
Having taken photos of presidents, world leaders, professors, students, and administration alike, Khan doesn’t usually get nervous.
“[But] when I don’t have my camera, I’m the complete opposite,” he noted. “If I have a camera, I’ll go up to anybody, and it doesn’t matter who you are: president, king, celebrity … When I don’t have a camera … I’m the guy standing by the punch bowl by myself,” he said.
But Khan, behind the camera, is everywhere at Princeton. “There’s so many great Princeton events where you look around, [you think], ‘I love this place,’” added Dunne. “And there’s Sameer in the corner photographing it.”
“One of the things that I’ve realized in the last few years is that … I’ve impacted the direction of photography at some of these places, on how photographs are valued,” said Khan. According to him, Nassau Hall only recently began hanging photographs in its hallways alongside the artwork.
Now, according to Khan, the second floor of Nassau Hall is filled with photos he has taken of conferences at Princeton.
“I think there’s a whole new level of appreciation for event photography and portrait photography, where it doesn’t have to be somebody famous, or taken by somebody famous, and I like that,” said Khan. “I like that direction.”
As a photographer who now passes by his work in the many hallowed halls at Princeton, Khan will always stop and say: “I took that photo.”
Mira Eashwaran is an associate Features editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.What is the ‘next big thing’ that is not AI?
“Aging technology, genetic engineering,” said George Chiriac ’25, Managing Director of Investments at Prospect Student Ventures (PSV). “Nuclear fusion,” he added.
“I don’t know if I agree with it, but the vibe that I’ve gotten from some of my classes [are] these autonomous humans, like Tesla’s Optimus,” said Nick Aronow ’25, co-founder of RePaired, a customer relationship management platform connecting homeowners and repair contractors.
Some students pointed to particular fields. “The startups are going to go where the money is, and I genuinely believe that there's eventually going to be money in pro-environment things,” noted Jack Prewitt ’27, Director of TigerLaunch, a student-run entrepreneurship competition under Princeton’s Entrepreneurship Club (E-Club).
“I don’t even think AI is the next big thing,” said Nathan Myers ’28, founder of Precision Metrics, an affordable, high-precision GPS device for crew boats. Ultimately, “you can [choose the ‘next big thing’] a thousand times and be wrong a thousand times,” he explained.
Though the national conversation around technology has been laden with buzzwords like “AI-powered” or “AI-driven solutions,” these students believe that the future of tech may lie in more concrete technological innovations. In recent years, the entrepreneurial ecosystem at Princeton has flourished through students applying their technological expertise across a range of disciplines to address societal issues.
In 2005, the University founded the Keller Center for Innovation in Engineering Education, its first formal institution for innovation and entrepreneurship, to prepare students for an increasingly technology-driven world. As the Keller Center approaches its 20th anniversary, it now offers over a dozen entrepreneurship courses every semester, as well as summer initiatives like the Princeton Startup Immersion Program and the eLab incubators and accelerators for student founders.
“As educators, we have a very broad definition of entrepreneurship,” said Beth Jarvie, the Communications Coordinator for the Keller Center. “It’s not just about creating a startup company, it’s about innovating and creating solutions that can impact society and communities.”
Jarvie also noted that Princeton students tend to be “very risk-averse.” The expectation for Princeton students to do well financially after graduation, Jarvie explained, often becomes “pushback” when it comes to starting a company. She additionally recalled that, before entrepreneurship became a certificate program, it was challenging to attract students to these courses since they did not fulfill any distribution requirements.
That reluctance, she suggested, originates from a deep-seated aversion to failure. “Princeton students aren't used to anything with an F,” said Jarvie, referencing “The Other ‘F’ Word,” a past course offered with the Keller Center. “They think that failure is a very negative word, but in entrepreneurship, failure is how we move forward.”
Yiying Zhang ’26, co-president of E-Club, has also noticed students’ risk aversion. Although E-Club is the largest undergraduate student organization on campus with over 500 members distributed across 15 subteams, he observed that most of the founders are isolated and “build in vacuum” while the rest of the student population “[moves] towards the corporate direction.”
Many Princeton alumni, Yiying Zhang noted, had a “monolithic mindset” that entrepreneurship was the “equivalent of dropping out.” Additionally, he cited the academic rigor involved in a Princeton education as an impediment, while universities like Stanford have much more flexibility in combining entrepreneurial ventures with academic credit. For example, Stanford offers many more courses and organizations for entrepreneurship, as well as launchpads, cause-specific groups, cohort-based programs, and a business graduate school.
While some students remain at Princeton while working on their projects, others take gap years from their Princeton education to pursue their ventures.
Shirley Yu ’27, for example, is working on Sign Script, an extension for virtual meetings that translates ASL gestures in real-time. It has not been easy balancing “student” and “entrepreneur,” but Yu expressed flexibility with her remaining years on campus.
“I’ll go with the flow,” Yu said. “I’ll be busy as I can, and I’ll put in as much time as it needs and make it my priority until the point where I can no longer balance it with my academics. Then, I will start considering potentially gapping for a year.”
Meanwhile, Mihir Rao ’27 is taking a gap year to spend his days refining his entrepreneurial philosophy, understanding the state of the biopharmaceuticals industry, and riding Waymos in San Francisco. During his gap year, he met a philosophically-minded colleague who challenged him to get to his first principles and helped him reorient his “why.”
“The biggest thing you get out of this is a very clear objective function,” Rao said. “What are you trying to optimize for in life?”
Although he is still refining the specifics for his startup, he hopes to build two major components: an intelligence platform that leverages machine learning to optimize drug strategies and a focus on developing the company’s own therapeutics. For Rao, the creative process is “finding vibes.”
“Vibes are just what our brain thinks is good and appealing that’s been informed by world experiences,” he explained. “Creativity is when you achieve the vibes you want to achieve.”
Yiying Zhang himself has founded five unsuccessful startups, but “learned so much” from the failures. To him, the scariest part about being a startup is not being rejected by venture capital firms or by other people. Rather, it is launching a venture and being met with silence: “Nothing happens,” he said. “That’s the scary part.”
“The way to solve this is to bring the fire together,” he continued. “Don’t just burn in your own pile. Let’s bring it into a big campfire and interact with each other.”
One group on campus has been watching the bonfire of entrepreneurship grow throughout the years: Prospect Student Ventures (PSV), a student-run venture capital group that provides VC education to its members and equity-free grants to founders. It has witnessed the growth of campus entrepreneurship from the investing side — in particular, a fivefold increase in funding applications since 2020.
According to Elise Kait ’25, one of the PSV’s biggest challenges is raising enough funds to keep pace with the growing number of applicants.
According to Jason Bohner ’25, PSV funds both for-profit and nonprofit companies, spanning fields from hardware to educational technology. The process starts with an application and a detailed meeting with the founders, followed by investment memos assessing risks and impact. Applications then go to a full team vote before final approval by PSV’s grant committee, a panel of industry professionals who evaluate the group’s decisions.
“We look for a problem that is real, [where] people have or provide very tangible value to its customers,” Chiriac explained. “We look for a good team and product fit. We want our companies to have a big opportunity to scale.”
Unlike traditional venture capital firms that must generate returns for their investors, PSV operates without third-party investors and does not take equity in the startups it supports.
“We don't have that problem, because we don't have to pay anyone back, and [the founders] don't have to pay us back,” explained Elise Kait ’25. “So, we're really focused on finding companies where our money will make an impact for them.”
PSV itself was initially funded by a founding lump sum in 2020. According to Kait, the group is approaching the "tail-end" of the original fund, but the members are actively raising a new fund to support its operations.
However, over the past five years, PSV has consistently contributed to the ideation and growth of a variety of startups where they can make such an impact.
Every month, female athletes push through intense training sessions, often ignoring the silent rhythms of their menstrual cycles. This gave Katherine Kalap ’25, Sterling Hall ’25, Shelby Fulton ’25, and Nina Weeldreyer ’26 the inspiration to create Eir, a solution based on hardware and software.
Eir develops athletic wearables that help female athletes optimize training based on their menstrual cycle. According to Hall, the hardware consists of a device that tracks biomarkers during workouts, while the software is an app that analyzes this data alongside menstrual cycle records to monitor symptoms and provide recovery and nutrition insights. Eir also intends to create a coaches’ dashboard, where they can access the data and inform training adjustments.
“There's a lot of coaches that don't really understand the impact of menstrual cycles on athletes’ performance,” Weeldreyer said. “Eir also serves to educate coaches and provide [a] layer of connection between them and their team.”
Sometimes, a refrigerator breaks down in June and remains broken three months later. This was the case for Nick Aronow ’25. He and Chase Magnano ’25 then came up with the idea for RePaired, a platform connecting homeowners and repair contractors. On the homeowner side, it helps them gather information and optimize scheduling. For the repair professionals, it helps them generate and manage leads. It was a practical solution born from personal experience.
“The idea doesn’t have to change the world,” Magnano said. “It just has to be good enough for someone to take a leap of faith with you and realize that they get some value from what you did.”
In rowing, a cox box provides the team with data like stroke rate and elapsed time, and helps amplify the voice of the coxswain, who steers the boat and directs the team. However, each cox box costs around a thousand dollars for what Nathan Myers ’28 believes to be very old technology. Frustrated by both the high price and frequent malfunctions, Myers decided to take one apart. Inside, he found components that were not only obsolete but also worth a fraction of the price.
Myers especially hopes to resolve the problem for lower-income rowing teams, for whom the coxboxes are a “huge prohibitive cost.” He opted to tinker by hand, frequenting the makerspaces on campus and recreating the cox box with more advanced batteries, GPS technology, and colored screens.
“We have ChatGPT now — it can code so many things, but it can’t install an Ethernet USB dongle on a low-power fork of Raspbian, right?” Myers said. Raspbian is an operating system designed for use in the family of single-board computers known as Raspberry Pi.
Another expansion in entrepreneurship is TigerLaunch, an E-Club subteam that hosts some of the largest student-run entrepreneurship competitions in the world. Founded in 2014, its regional events span not just the U.S. coasts, but Europe, Asia, and Africa. In January, they hosted competitions in Paris and Singapore. Athan Zhang ’27 noted many founders involved in AI, hardware, and med tech at Princeton, while the focus in other countries was very different.
“When we go international, we see a lot of different types of startups, like sustainability and green startups,” Athan Zhang said. “In the U.S., VCs have a greater focus on AI, technology, and that type of bubble, [so] a lot of people are more pushed towards those domains.
So, what is the ‘next big thing’ that is not AI?
In Yiying Zhang’s perspective, revolutionary technologies like AI are impossible to predict: a person from the steam age would have found the digital age unimaginable, a person who grew up with the combustion engine could never have envisioned high-speed rail, and the CEO of IBM himself predicted the world would have a market for five computers in total.
“But what I can predict is that humans always stay the same in this framework,” Yiying Zhang said.
“Find the next group of people who are the biggest thing instead of the next technology,” he continued. “No matter how much tech evolves, in the end, humans [are] the constant factor.”
Coco Gong is a head Features editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
I am writing in my personal capacity as the former President of the Interclub Council to give the University some feedback on an important matter they are currently reviewing. From late 2023 to early 2024, the University hired an outside consulting firm, Huron Consulting Group, to examine the housing and dining undergraduate experience. Last summer, the Huron Group quietly released a 25-page report detailing their findings. The report is as opaque with its methodology as it is sweeping in the scope of its recommendations, the most extreme of which is a proposal on the last page to require all students who reside on campus to purchase a campus dining meal plan — including juniors and seniors currently on an eating club contract.
This course of action would be harmful to the undergraduate experience and poses an existential threat to the eating clubs, potentially forcing many into financial ruin. If implemented, the report’s recommendation would sever past and present generations of Princetonians from their unique and tight-knit communities, reverse decades of progress towards diversity in the clubs, and throw the undergraduate dining system into disarray. I respectfully call on the administration to disavow this course of action, since the relationship between the University and the eating clubs is ultimately one of mutual benefit.
The eating clubs play a vital role in nurturing Princeton’s undergraduate and alumni communities. The Huron Report itself emphasized that “students who are a part of [an] eating club are more satisfied than those who identify as Independent or have selected a meal plan.” The eating clubs provide a convenient location to eat, as well as a vibrant campus social scene with robust safety measures, including hiring professional bouncers, running SHARE training for members, partnering with PSafe, and defining policies around after-dark events. The rich and longstanding history of the eating clubs also helps members feel a sense of investment in a beloved campus tradition. There’s a reason Princeton has the most loyal alumni in the Ivy League — long after graduation, students who were in eating clubs have a lifelong home on campus to come back to.
However, requiring all juniors and seniors to purchase a campus dining meal plan would threaten these benefits. Few Princetonians would be able to afford both their eating club fees and a campus meal plan, so requiring such a plan is tantamount to forcing most students to give up their eating club memberships. Notably, the Huron Report does not recommend that the University readjust their increased food budget for juniors and seniors to be higher, which could shield students on financial aid from the worst of the effects. With a decimated pool of potential members, most if not all eating clubs would simply not be able to continue operation — especially in the face of sky-high property taxes, multiple forms of insurance, and rising inflation in the food industry.
The report is, at the moment, a recommendation. But the stakes are high. Every time in the past a club has closed on the Street has been a heartbreaking experience for its undergraduate and alumni members. In particular, stripping alumni of their “home away from home” at Princeton would lessen their connection to campus and the University. According to the Huron Report itself, “Alumni eating club members expressed a high degree of affinity for their club, describing it as a defining element of the residential experience. The eating clubs were cited as motivators for alumni to return to campus.” This is due in no small part to the fiercely proud and tight-knit communities we are able to form at the eating clubs, which remain near and dear to alumni hearts even decades after they graduate.
Furthermore, following the Huron Report’s recommendation would reverse decades of painstaking and fruitful progress on eating club diversity. The eating clubs today are more diverse in terms of race, gender, and socioeconomic background than they have ever been before. But if all students were required to purchase a campus dining plan, only the most wealthy and privileged Princetonians would be able to afford an eating club membership on top of it. Instead of being able to serve large majorities of Princeton’s student population, the clubs would only be able to cater to the “one percent,” turning into regressive and anachronistic versions of themselves that nobody, especially the current and increasingly diverse membership of the clubs, wants them to be.
Lastly, requiring all juniors and seniors to purchase campus dining plans would negatively impact the general undergraduate dining experience, including first-years and sophomores, as well as the students who choose to remain on a dining hall plan in their upperclass years. The current dining hall options are already crowded, with long lines winding through the serveries and teeming with unfamiliar faces. Jamming several thousand additional juniors and seniors into an already overburdened and crowded campus dining system would exacerbate these issues, no matter how many gleaming new dining halls rise at Hobson or other farther locations.
Both of us, the University and the eating clubs, ultimately share the same goal: making the undergraduate experience as enriching and rewarding as possible and fostering an enthusiastic and involved alumni community. Adopting the Huron Report’s recommendation to force every student to purchase a campus dining meal plan, even if they have another full meal plan, would be counterproductive to that mutual goal. It would take away one of the most beloved Princeton traditions, reversing decades of progress and worsening the Princeton experience for all students, regardless of whether they participate in an eating club. I am, respectfully, offering my advice to the University to reject this ill-conceived recommendation.
Vincent Jiang ’25 is the President Emeritus of the Interclub Council, the organization composed of the eleven undergraduate eating club presidents at Princeton University. He can be reached at vincentjiang[at]princeton.edu.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the authors’ views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
Columbia University appears to have given in to the government’s anti-constitutional  and autocratic attack on free speech and the rule of law. In the face of Project 2025-inspired demands from the Trump administration, Columbia expelled students and revoked degrees. On Friday, they announced further concessions, including, most concerningly to us, the removal of academic self-governance from the Department of Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies.
After all of this, the restoration of $400 million in research grants, including lifesaving clinical trials and training grants for postdocs and students, is still not guaranteed. And as President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 has aptly put it, “once you make concessions once, it’s hard not to make them again.”
It may be easy to label Columbia’s actions as capitulation. However, when the full force of the U.S. government is set against any single institution, resistance is difficult.
But it’s not just Columbia. Princeton, along with 59 others, is on a list of universities targeted by the administration. President Eisgruber has started the pushback, standing up on behalf of academic freedom and saying that the Trump administration is attacking higher education. Professors, students, other universities, and the public should join him: When targeting one institution is a bald attempt to divide and conquer, as is the case with Columbia, it is essential for a coalition or group of institutions and individuals to stand up together.
Threats to university research directly affect student opportunity. Here at Princeton, students can work with world-class scientists and scholars, opening gateways to medical and graduate schools. If labs close, that opportunity shrinks: Students will have fewer opportunities to do research and build their futures.
The recent hiring freeze here at Princeton and at peer institutions such as Harvard and Penn is an early warning sign. Elsewhere, graduate schools are rescinding offers to college seniors. The damage threatens to encompass all fields including social sciences, engineering, and humanities, devaluing the degrees all students are working toward.
Do not be fooled by those who wish to use impassioned debates within higher education as a means of driving us apart. Last year Congressional Republicans used the war in Gaza and the ensuing student protests as a wedge. Now, inspired by strategists like Christopher Rufo, the administration is going after programs with words like “diversity.” They will continue to look for points of legitimate disagreement, then lean into those points to advance autocracy.
Some values transcend ideology or party. Colleges and universities have been a pillar of American strength throughout Democratic and Republican governments over the last hundred years. That pillar is now under threat as part of a broader attack on a law-based society, and as part of a larger assault on institutions, from Social Security to flight safety.
As Lee Bollinger, former president of Columbia and the University of Michigan, has put it, we are in the midst of an authoritarian takeover. In the midst of this, standing up for higher education is part of a larger defense of the whole nation’s well-being and the rules-based system that has allowed the nation to prosper.
Some may be apprehensive of speaking out in isolation. However, there is no reward for obeying in advance. A successful response requires action, together. In Erica Chenoweth and Maria J. Stephan’s work on nonviolent movements around the world, they found that if a movement spreads to even a few percent of the population, success becomes more likely than not. Furthermore, there are network effects: 10 times as many people can potentially make 100 times the impact. Just like individuals, when colleges and universities work together, they will be stronger.
Indeed, for maximum effect, higher education will have to find as many allies as possible. We can enlist everyone who has benefited from publicly-funded research, including treatments for cancer and childhood illnesses, batteries, HDTV, the Internet, weather forecasting, and more. We must remind the public that the discoveries of research translate basic science to health, prosperity, and security, touching billions. Without protection from the public, this accumulated capacity for greatness won’t survive the illegal assaults on our education system.
President Eisgruber wrote that Princeton and other institutions should engage in “forceful litigation.” But he has institutional responsibilities, both at Princeton and his role at the Association of American Universities, that limit what he can say or do. That is where the rest of us come in.
We scholars cannot let the government hold our work hostage. Science funding is being withheld in retaliation for protected free speech. We are passionate about science and its benefits to society, but we fear more what will happen if we do not help defend everyone’s fundamental rights. Freedom of expression and inquiry come first. If we lose these, we are at risk of losing not only science, but the entire educational enterprise — and broader freedoms in all society. In another sector, some big law firms are defending themselves. Like them, we must speak out for both ourselves and for society.
Finally: Students, we urge you to do your part. Use your critical thinking skills, and notice that institutions are letting us down. As faculty, our methods of communication involve paragraphs. Through new media like TikTok, you can craft compelling messages about science, learning, and freedom. Go in person to protest against the external threat. Use your freedom. Use your power.
We must not shrink from this moment. We hope that President Eisgruber’s example is amplified by all of us, for the sake of Princeton, Columbia, and the nation.
Sam Wang is a professor of Neuroscience. He can be reached at sswang[at]princeton.edu.
Andrew Leifer is an associate professor of Neuroscience and Physics. Jonathan Pillow, David Tank, and Ilana Witten are professors of Neuroscience.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.Within the Orange Bubble, one color stands out for Kaden Knight ’28, who dresses exclusively in shades of purple. The Daily Princetonian sat down with “The Purple Guy” to find out why.
Daily Princetonian: Why do you wear purple?
Kaden Knight: I just like the color. It reminds me of magic and creativity. It was sometime in kindergarten when I decided I liked the color, so I wore it. I kept liking the color, so I just got more purple clothes.
By third grade, I basically had all purple clothes. I had to take a step back, look at myself and decide I like this, let’s continue doing this.
DP: So since third grade you’ve been wearing purple every single day?
KK: Yeah actually, I remember the moment. It was third grade, doing a theater production of Shakespeare’s As You Like It. And for the theater production, everybody had to wear stage black ... I didn’t have a proper black shirt, so instead, I wore this black shirt that was a Minecraft periodic table of elements. I was looking at myself, and I realized, “Hey, this shirt still has purple from the obsidian’s purple flakes.” So [since] I’m still wearing purple even though I’m supposed to be wearing stage black, I should, from this day, onwards, continue to just wear at least one bit of purple in my clothing.
DP: Do you own anything that isn’t purple?
KK: At the start of the year they handed out all those Princeton T-Shirts. I took the white ones. I’m a very lazy person, but once I stop being lazy, I’m gonna go and dye those purple. But right now, they are just shoved in a dresser, two little white shirts. Everything else is purple. Bed sheets are purple. I’ve got my phone cases purple. Probably other stuff is purple, it’s lots of purple. People play a game where they ask me: “Do you have purple this? You have a purple that?”
DP: Do you plan on being purple forever?
KK: I don’t know. I haven’t stopped liking purple yet, so it doesn’t seem to be happening in the future. I wouldn’t mind liking purple forever. Present me has no problems with wearing purple forever. Maybe future me will come to a different decision.
DP: Have you ever found people that do a similar thing?
KK: It hasn’t happened yet. I haven’t found any other purple people. People tell me, “Kaden, did you know that in Seattle there’s a place called The Purple Store where they only sell purple things?” Someday, I want to make a pilgrimage to The Purple Store and meet other purple-obsessed people.
My friends will come tell me, “Oh my goodness, there’s this one guy who wears all purple at Oberlin and he reminds me of you,” or apparently at Stanford there is this child of one of the math professors who wears all purple and goes around Stanford on a unicycle.
I don’t have Fizz, but friends of mine will just be like, “Kaden, you’re on Fizz again.” Somebody took a photo of you and posted it to a bunch of people anonymously. It’s all super sweet. The photo was really funny with the caption “Purple Rain.”
DP: Do you find the posts to be creepy?
KK: I don’t feel like I can really have a problem with it because everybody is being sweet and kind. It does feel a little creepy. But they’re all really nice about it. Everything I have seen, from what people have shown me, is curiosity — well-intentioned and nice.
I’m so ‘train-of-thought-y’ that I have no idea if this interview is going to make any sense to anybody reading it. Hi, people reading this interview! I hope this has some logical coherence to you. Hope you’re enjoying this!
Ark Bunyan is a contributing Data and Features writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 was irked at the unscripted questions.
At the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) meeting on Monday, Eisgruber was confronted with queries on the Trump administration and University governance from several students who had skirted the committee’s rules on submitting questions on advance.
The first question came from Vasanth Visweswaran ’28, who asked Eisgruber how he could use his position as chair of the Association of American Universities (AAU) to “defend all members of the University community from the recent Trump administration attacks on free speech, funding cuts and threats for deportations.”
“That’s not the question you submitted,” Eisgruber immediately responded. “Look, I’m gonna answer as best I can,” he continued.
“I think it is very important that we speak up about the good that higher education and universities do in our society,” Eisgruber said. He highlighted his roles as the board chair of the Association of American Universities and president of the University in defending the importance of higher education, citing an article he published in The Atlantic on March 19 condemning federal funding cuts at Columbia.
“I think that’s very different from opposing particular government officials or an administration,” he said in reference to defending universities.
“I would hope that anyone who takes a stand about wanting America to be great, [recognizes] that part of America’s greatness depends on the greatness of our research universities,” Eisgruber continued.
Historically, Eisgruber has embraced his role as a voice for higher education and the University — defending affirmative action or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients in Washington, for example. He also recently appeared on PBS News to discuss the implications of Columbia University’s policy responses to the Trump administration. On campus, however, Eisgruber characterizes himself as an administrator, not a politician.
The awkward exchange between administrator and student activist was unusual for a meeting that is typically procedurally rigid. Eisgruber’s responses were largely consistent with his restrained style and insistence on respecting University procedure.
The next question came from Rowan Johnson ’27, and was also unscripted.
“Will you be able to promise that you will not capitulate to the anti-democratic demands of the Trump administration, like the administration of Columbia University has done?” Johnson asked.
Eisgruber objected similarly. “These questions are not the questions that came in, you guys ... I think it’s important that we hold to the procedures,” he continued. However, he did engage with the question, adding, “I will just say that Princeton University will stand firm for its values and mission.”
The final question was asked by Zach Goldberg ’28. “I hope this is the question that you submitted in advance,” said Eisgruber.
Goldberg answered in affirmation, beginning with, “this ought to resemble the question we submitted in advance.” Goldberg then expressed concern over recent Environmental Protection Agency plans, Immigration and Customs Enforcement deportations, and cuts to National Institute of Health funding, amid a slew of executive orders in the first few months of the Trump Administration.
“Will the University commit to giving students a real seat at the table when these decisions are made?” asked Goldberg.
“Again, that question doesn’t resemble one that at least was shared,” Eisgruber responded. He then praised the CPUC as a body that honors student involvement in University discourse. “The body we have right here is a body which is rare in higher education, in being one that allows for open deliberation and discussion of difficult issues in the University,” Eisgruber said.
Goldberg began to reply when Eisgruber added, “No, I’m not actually going to allow a follow up, because that question itself wasn’t submitted to us.”
Goldberg then called out to the crowd, “So, we will not have a seat at the table” as student members of Sunrise Princeton stood up and filed out of the meeting.
Eisgruber continued to the next item on the agenda, an update from the Resources Committee given by Jay Groves, the Hugh Stott Taylor Chair of Chemistry and Chair of Research. The update focused on a report of the Resources Committee’s decision earlier this month not to recommend dissociation to the Board of Trustees.
Next was Associate Provost for Institutional Diversity and Inclusion, Sean Maxim’s presentation on the annual Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Annual Report. “Princeton remains committed to our values of diversity and inclusion,” Maxim said, echoing Esigruber’s sentiments from last month's CPUC meeting.
USG President Enzo Kho ’26 and GSG President Amari Tankard both gave short presentations reviewing their goals and planned initiatives for their respective terms.
The next CPUC meeting will be May 5.
Nikki Han contributed reporting.
Cynthia Torres is an assistant News editor and an Archives contributor. She is from New Bedford, MA. and typically covers University administration.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.“Brett’s a head coach,” Head Coach Mitch Henderson ’98 said of Associate Head Coach Brett MacConnell two years ago in an interview at Jadwin Gym after the Tigers defeated No. 2 seed Arizona and No. 7 seed Missouri in the same weekend to reach the Sweet 16.
Just two years later, MacConnell and assistant coach Lawrence Rowley have been asked not to return to the Tiger bench following a tumultuous season that saw the Tigers eliminated in the Ivy Madness semifinals despite being picked as the overwhelming preseason favorite to play in the NCAA tournament. While the news has not been announced by the athletics department, The Daily Princetonian was able to independently verify the information from sources close to the team.
Associate Director of Athletics for Communications Chas Dorman would not comment specifically on personnel matters other than to confirm that currently all members of the men’s basketball coaching staff are employed by the University.
The ‘Prince’ independently verified that MacConnell's contract is not expected to be renewed and Rowley is not expected to be retained for the 2025-2026 season.
MacConnell has served as the team's recruiting coordinator since 2013, proving impactful in shaping the program’s identity and the team’s recent successes. Junior stars Xaivian Lee and Caden Pierce as well Tosan Evbuomwan ’23, Jaelin Llewellyn ’22,  Devin Cannady ’19, and Zach Martini ’24 all have something in common: getting recruited by MacConnell.
MacConnell flew out to Leicestershire, England to watch Evbuomwan, giving him an offer despite his team getting blown out. Princeton was the only Division I school to respond to Evbuomwan, now the NBA’s only Ivy Leaguer.
He took a chance on Lee, an unheralded recruit in high school who has blossomed into an NBA prospect, and Martini, who received his first Division I offer from MacConnell.
MacConnell was also invited to Silver Waves Media’s Elite 75 Future Head Coach Power Lunch, an event that highlights potential future Division 1 head coaches at this year’s Final Four in San Antonio.
Rowley, meanwhile has been with Princeton since the 2022 season. From 2018 to 2021, Rowley played Division III basketball at Emory University before his senior season was cancelled due to COVID-19.
After graduating in 2021, Rowley spent a year at The College of New Jersey as a graduate assistant coach. The Lions went 10–14 overall that season, and the next year Rowley joined the Tigers’ coaching staff.
Since 2022, Rowley has been an assistant coach for Princeton, helping develop stars like Lee and Pierce. He contributed to a three-year stretch where the Tigers won 66 of 91 games and 30 of 42 in the Ivy League.
The coaching changes raise questions about the future of the Princeton basketball program. With the transfer portal now open, concerns about roster changes are also likely to pop up. In the new era of Name, Image, and Likeness (NIL) in college sports, star players Xaivian Lee and Caden Pierce are bound to be offered six-figure deals to leave Princeton. But NIL is not limited to these players, and others on the team may be tempted to consider the portal.
After a season marked by unmet expectations, these coaching changes add uncertainty to the offseason for Princeton basketball.
Doug Schwartz is an associate Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.On Monday afternoons, Ingrid Nilsson ’26 crosses campus to volunteer at the Arm in Arm food pantry. She walks down to the small basement of the Nassau Presbyterian Church just off Princeton’s campus where the pantry is located. There, Nilsson sorts through the donations, packs bags for a steady stream of clients, and chats with the other volunteers and staff.
For the people who rely on Arm in Arm’s services, it is a lifeline. For those who volunteer there, it is a straightforward and necessary way to give back to the community. “You can directly see what you’re doing, [and that] is really nice,” Nilsson said.
With several locations across New Jersey, Arm in Arm is built on the support of volunteer work and community investment. Formerly known as The Crisis Ministry, the nonprofit was started by the leaders of the Nassau Presbyterian Church and Trinity Church in the 1980s to provide food and financial assistance to families in the Mercer County area. As they expanded over the last few decades, the work has allowed the 20 staff members and hundreds of volunteers to continue their mission and help over 4,000 in-need families.
One of two Student Volunteer Coordinators along with Kiran Biddinger ’25, Nilsson is responsible for organizing volunteer shifts while regularly helping out at the pantry. This student position was started in 2021 by Olivia Cao ’24.
“Arm-in-Arm allows me to interact with and give back to the greater Princeton community we’re part of,” Cao said. ”We don’t always realize it, but we are part of it.”
Arm in Arm’s clients come mainly from the town of Princeton. While Nassau Street is filled with luxury brand stores, almost six percent of residents live in poverty. Arm in Arm serves about 150 clients a week, from all different communities and backgrounds.
“We have the Indian community, Hispanic community, Black community, even Russian,” Leticia Hernandez, services coordinator at Arm in Arm, explained. “People … can see the diversity just by walking in through the doors.”
This diversity is replicated in Arm in Arm’s volunteers, many of whom speak different languages, which is a huge help in interacting with clients.
Hernandez has been working with the pantry since January of 2003 and was drawn to the idea of helping the community who needed it the most. Sitting at her desk, cluttered with papers and photographs, Hernandez smiles and chats easily with the employees and volunteers that come in and out of her small office. For her, the interpersonal work she’s able to engage in enriches the job even more.
“I always knew that I loved working with people,” Hernandez said. “I applied for the job knowing that I would be interacting with people and trying to make a difference the best way that I can.”
In winter, the colder temperatures and holiday season make volunteers and community partners essential for the pantry to run smoothly and successfully. Thanksgiving is one of the busiest times of the year. Donations come flooding in as boxes and bags and giant carts that Bernard Sweat, Princeton Arm and Arm’s other staff member, empties and then wheels upstairs to collect yet more donations.
Food supplies are bursting from the shelves, which Hernandez says never happens — except at this time of the year. Bags from churches, organizations, and individuals are all lined up to be weighed and then sorted into the shelves. It’s non-stop action as some volunteers weigh the bags, some pack the shelves, some pack the bags, and others talk to the clients.
Right outside the pantry, a steady stream of people line up to collect their food supplies. They come in all shapes and colors, individuals and families, young and old. A volunteer yells out, “One bag!” Those in the pantry spring into action, filling a bag with the requisite items: one can of this, one box of that, and so on.
A middle-aged Black lady with a grey zip-up jacket, bandana, and tiny crossbody bag leans over the doorway on her way out. “Can I get white bread?” she asked.
That isn’t available, so the volunteer on duty gives her the closest option: whole grain bread. The volunteer asks if she wants bagels instead, and the lady agrees. When she gets the bagels, however, she decides to go back to the whole grain bread. There’s a playful ease in the interaction, and the lady, upon receiving the bread, says “I love you!”
The volunteer laughs, “I love you too!”
“Happy thanksgiving!” she says.
The volunteer looks at her retreating figure with a smile, and turns back to packing the pantry.
***
For students, a key highlight of volunteering at Arm in Arm is the opportunity to engage with the community outside of the University’s gates. Despite Princeton’s informal motto, “In the Nation’s Service and the Service of Humanity,” perennially busy Princeton students often find it difficult to work volunteering into their schedules.
“I think a lot of students here think that volunteering is this big time commitment, but it’s so much easier and rewarding than people realize,” Nilsson says. Volunteers only have to walk up campus to the Presbyterian Church for their hour-long shifts.
Biddinger highlighted that many people are shocked that there’s a food pantry when he tells them about it. “It is a little bit of a misconception, but it’s also very cool. You get to engage in your own community.”
Cao, who first worked with the Trenton Arm in Arm branch during a fall break trip with the PACE center, later began volunteering at Princeton Arm in Arm. In communication with the organizations, she created a volunteer signup system as part of Output, the social entrepreneurship section of E-Club. Over time, the network of student volunteers grew, involving Nilsson and Biddinger, who then took over after Cao’s graduation.
This focus on serving the community around them drives the students who volunteer at Arm in Arm. To Biddinger, who grew up volunteering at food shelters and seeing the impacts of food insecurity, having a pantry so nearby was a tremendous opportunity. “I think both on a greater spiritual level, but also on a day to day level, it’s very, very rewarding, I’m very, very lucky to do it,” says Biddinger.
At the end of the day, Cao says that it’s about giving a spotlight to the community. “We need to focus on the fact that it’s part of the duty of Princeton students, to give back to the community we’re a part of. We’re doing this because it’s the right thing to do.”
Sedise Tiruneh is a staff Features writer and staff writer for the Prospect.
Faith Ho is a staff Features writer.
Please send any corrections to corrections@dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.A flurry of Trump administration executive orders and memos have paused, blocked, and then unblocked various streams of federal research funding since taking office, leaving scientists confused about their funding.
In his Jan. 28 email to the campus community, University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 acknowledged the confusion surrounding funding, writing that “you can expect to receive guidance from the Office of the Dean for Research, which is coordinating University-wide efforts.” At the time of publication, the Office of the Dean for Research’s most recent internal announcement is a memo sent to all principal investigators (PI) or co-investigators (co-PI) on federally-sponsored awards and proposals at Princeton. This Jan. 30 memo asked researchers to forward any stop-work orders they may receive and provides a new website page and an email for more information or questions.
Subsequent NIH funding remains in limbo following Trump’s Jan. 27 memo. In the 2024 fiscal year, the NIH awarded more than $37 billion to institutions across all U.S. states and over $265 million in foreign awards. Between Oct. 1, 2023 and Sept. 30, 2024, Princeton was awarded over $58 million, the least in the Ivy League, which received over three billion dollars total during the 2024 fiscal year. The NIH is a part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, supporting biomedical and behavioral research.
Princeton’s Office of Research and Project Administration links a Science article addressing confusion about NIH policies in their announcement, which references acting director of the NIH Matthew Memoli’s Jan. 27 memo. Memoli wrote that he understands “confusion on the scope of the pause” and provided additional clarifications, including that communication begun before the inauguration may continue so long as “it does not involve public release of information.”
Princeton, like Brown, Dartmouth, Penn, and Yale, was given NIH grants in 2024 as one institution. Meanwhile, the other Ivies received awards split among their respective schools, differentiating between health or medical funding and general University departments. Across all Ivies, Princeton received the least funding and is the only Ivy that does not have an associated medical school.
Princeton received fewer awards in the past two fiscal years of 2023 and 2024 than in every year since 2011 and less funding in 2024 than in any year since 2005, when Princeton also received $37.7 million from the NIH. The total funding and number of awards received by Princeton have remained relatively consistent.
Over the past five years, a majority of awards have gone towards research project grants. In 2024, this category accounted for 73 awards, totaling over $26 million in funding. The second-highest number of awards each year went to individual training, despite a consistently low amount of funding being awarded.
Biochemistry received the most funding at Princeton over the past five fiscal years, splitting around $18 million across 40 awards on average. Other science departments, including the chemistry and neuroscience departments, also received significant funding from the NIH.
In 2022 and 2023, the NSF awarded Princeton around $70 million each year. NSF funding accounts for around 32 percent of Princeton’s federally-funded research and development expenditures.
As of yesterday, the NSF Award Cash Management Service has been restored, allowing researchers to access their funding. The NSF stated all grantees must comply with executive orders, especially those surrounding diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility (DEIA) principles.
Andrew Bosworth is the Research Editor for the ‘Prince.’
Hellen Luo is an assistant Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.

In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.Each year, Street Week brings exciting opportunities, as hundreds of sophomores navigate the eating club selection process — but with Bicker clubs, on average, rejecting nearly two thirds of applicants, it also brings disappointment for many students.
Tower, in particular, had a drop of 17 percentage points in its acceptance rate — the lowest since at least 2018. No club had a significant increase in acceptance rate. This Street Week, 624 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs, compared to 629 in 2024 and 633 the year before. The Class of 2027, with 1,366 members, is the second expanded class year to participate in Street Week.
With hundreds of students vying for limited spots, some individuals felt daunted by the numbers. Olivia Bell ’27 held the perspective that Bicker felt less about personality and more about connections.
“Cap, I didn’t think I’d get in … I think it’s mainly about who you know, and not as much about your character and if they like you as a person,” said Bell. She ultimately joined Charter.
“I had trouble believing that out of the 400 people bickering Cap, they’ll like me over 300 other people — for a while, I thought to myself, is there even a point bickering?” added Melody Cui ’27. She is now a member of Cap and Gown.
Despite increasing interest in Cap and Gown, its accepted class sizes have remained relatively constant in recent years. While most clubs have increased membership to accommodate growing demand, Cap is the only Bicker club that has not substantially expanded since at least 2021. This lack of change has made an already selective process even more competitive, as more students apply for the same number of spots each year.
While Tower accepted one of its largest Bicker classes since 2000, its acceptance rate also dropped significantly from last year, making entry into the club more competitive than expected. This trend reflects growing interest in Tower.
Though double Bicker was instituted for all clubs in 2017, offering students more flexibility, the uncertainty surrounding admission still impacts how some students rank their club preferences.
“When I was ranking the clubs, I was thinking about what club I would want to go to the most, but also realistically what club would I have a chance of getting into,” Cui explained. But ultimately, she decided to trust her instincts. “At the end of the day, they’ll choose what they want, so I should choose what I want too.”
Some clubs, like Charter and Cap, have started accommodating for the size increase. Charter, for instance, is currently expanding its dining space, while Cap added a new wing to their dining room.
Overall, the number of newly admitted Bickerees hasn’t kept up with Princeton’s growing class size, leaving acceptance rates tighter than ever. For the coming years, students may expect to continue bickering with a mix of excitement, strategy, and uncertainty, hoping in the end to find a place that feels like home.
Chima Oparaji is a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.The Davis International Center (Davis IC), Princeton’s center for international students and scholars, advised non-U.S. citizens at Princeton to carry their I-94 forms and “exercise caution” with regards to international travel, in an email sent on Friday. The email also warned students to “be mindful that electronic devices are subject to search when entering the US,” including social media activity.
The I-94 form, also known as an Arrival-Departure Record Card, is a form used by U.S. Customs and Border Protection to track the arrival and departure of non-citizens, and it contains proof of legal entry and allowed stay time. The document is given to all holders of sponsored visas, but not green card holders.
The advice comes the same day as new U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) guidance, which reflects a Jan. 20 executive order from President Donald Trump requiring all non-citizens 14 years or older to register their status with the government. According to USCIS, “Once an alien has registered and appeared for fingerprinting (unless waived), DHS will issue evidence of registration, which aliens over the age of 18 must carry and keep in their personal possession at all times.”
According to the email from the Davis IC, “it appears that students and scholars [on nonimmigrant visas] should already be considered ‘registered’ by virtue of admission to the U.S. and issuance of an I-94,” but the details of the registration process currently remain unclear.
“We are reviewing the new registration process, and we hope that the government will clarify the details in the coming weeks,” the email reads.
It is also unknown at this time if or how the registration requirement will affect green card holders.
This message is the first piece of concrete advice sent to all international members of the University community at Princeton, and comes as the Trump administration takes a hardline against immigration that has caused much fear and uncertainty on college campuses nationwide.
Earlier this week, a French scientist was detained upon entry to the U.S. after messages critical of the administration were found in his phone. Additionally, Mahmoud Khalil, a recent graduate of Columbia University and green-card holder, was arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement due to being considered a threat to national security for his role in Columbia’s pro-Palestine protests. At Cornell, a student from Gambia was asked by ICE to turn himself in for leading pro-Palestine protests.
On a global scale, countries are updating their travel advisories to reflect changes in U.S. policy. Following the detention of several German nationals, German authorities updated its travel advisory to the United States. The United Kingdom has also revised its travel guidance in the past several weeks for any travelers planning to visit the U.S.
In January, as other schools advised students to return before Trump’s inauguration, the Davis IC issued no such warning. Davis IC Director Albert Rivera did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The email ended with notice of virtual attorney sessions, open to all, that the Davis IC is hosting on March 26. “Attorney Session: An Update on U.S. Immigration Issues” will be held at 12:30 p.m., and “Immigration Do’s and Don’ts & How to Prepare” at 8 p.m.
Christopher Bao is a head News editor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Princeton, N.J. and typically covers town politics and life.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.Many students hoping to get into SML 201: Introduction to Data Science this semester were left disappointed. By the middle of the last week of the add/drop period, 244 people were waiting to grab a spot on TigerSnatch for a class with fewer than 160 enrollees.
The Daily Princetonian analyzed the 15 most-requested courses of the semester as reported by TigerSnatch subscription analytics.
The most ‘snatched’ courses are fairly evenly spread across distributional requirements. Literature and the Arts (LA) stands out, with the Creative Writing courses dominating. CWR 204: Creative Writing (Fiction) had 219 snatches, and CWR 202: Creating Writing (Poetry) had 172 snatches. Historical Analysis (HA) is the only distribution requirement without representation in the top 15.
Lecturer Day Yi, who teaches SML 201, attributes the course’s high demand to growing industry interest in AI.
“The demand might indicate students are favorably adopting the course content, the industry trends especially in the AI space, and the teaching efforts of our instructors,” Yi wrote. “We have a great group of core faculty at CSML who have laid the foundation for this demand long before I arrived here.”
The demand for these courses, however, has spelled difficulty for both professors and students, often exceeding the maximum roster size of the class.
Physics professor Jason Puchalla, who teaches PHY 108: Physics for the Life Sciences, wrote in an email to the ‘Prince’ that there are two sides to teaching a course with more interest than can be satisfied. PHY 108 had 177 people awaiting openings on TigerSnatch.
“I’m delighted the class has been well received by students, but the enrollment stress means I have mixed feelings,” Puchalla wrote. “I’m thankful I’ve been able to have a positive impact on so many exceptional students since our department first offered the class. That said, PHY 108 has grown into a complicated element of the curriculum.”
As such, one of the most challenging aspects of teaching these courses is choosing which students to accept from their extensive waitlists. Professors must carefully balance class function with satisfaction, and, in certain cases, consider students who need the courses to graduate.
Puchalla spoke about the complex and difficult process involved in selecting students off of the waitlist.
“Many students hope to use the class to help prepare for the MCAT, others are potentially away the following year, and some reveal last minute that they are seniors who won’t graduate unless they get in,” Puchalla said. “Seniors who need the class to graduate are considered first. Then come students who have been locked out several times (I keep a lot of emails) and complicated cases I’m informed of by deans and departments.”
Puchalla claimed that, after that, he used a lottery to fill remaining spots.
“Telling so many students this year that there are no more seats in the class was disheartening and incredibly frustrating,” he added.
Professor and Director of Graduate Studies in Musicology Elizabeth Margulis teaches MUS 248: Music Cognition, which had 136 TigerSnatch subscriptions. Speaking about the student selection process, Margulis wrote, “We try to add people as fairly as we’re able, based on how the class fits into their goals and plans and how long they’ve been on the list.”
While seniority is generally the primary factor considered when selecting students off of the waitlist, there are exceptions.
With 111 students on the waitlist and only 15 spots available, ANT 232: Love — Anthropological Explorations has the highest waitlist-to-class-size. Aina Marzia ’28 was accepted into the class after contacting the course instructor, Professor Thalia Gigerenzer.
“I didn’t initially get the class because it was taken by seniors, but I emailed the professor as a freshman about my earnest interest for the class’s content and she gave me permission to enroll,” Marzia said. “The ethnographic aspect of the class really interested me. I knew I wanted to take it as someone who wants to major in Anthropology; plus who doesn’t want talk about love, even if it’s academically. It teaches you a lot.”
Yi acknowledged the challenges the relatively young Center for Statistics and Machine Learning faces in managing the unprecedented demand, often requiring faculty members to juggle multiple responsibilities.
“We are not a large department — in fact, we aren’t even a department — and so our thin resources create challenges in managing the enrollment at the start of the semester. Many of us wear several hats in keeping this course from falling apart,” Yi wrote. “This creates much extra work for us — the instructors and administrators. The quality to quantity ratio can suffer as a result. I’m a movie buff, so I refer to a quote from Hyman Roth (The Godfather, Part II) — ‘this is the business we’ve chosen.’”
These challenges come despite general increases in maximum enrollment sizes for these courses since the Spring 2022 semester.
The highest percent maximum enrollment size increase occurred in POL 396: International Organizations, in which enrollment increased by 230 students: a 135 percent jump. The course had 127 students subscribed on TigerSnatch, waiting for a course opening.
The add/drop period officially ended on Friday, Feb. 7 at 11:59 p.m. Many courses on the top 15 list in Tiger Snatch are still overenrolled.
Griffin Hon is a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
I am writing in my personal capacity as the former President of the Interclub Council to give the University some feedback on an important matter they are currently reviewing. From late 2023 to early 2024, the University hired an outside consulting firm, Huron Consulting Group, to examine the housing and dining undergraduate experience. Last summer, the Huron Group quietly released a 25-page report detailing their findings. The report is as opaque with its methodology as it is sweeping in the scope of its recommendations, the most extreme of which is a proposal on the last page to require all students who reside on campus to purchase a campus dining meal plan — including juniors and seniors currently on an eating club contract.
This course of action would be harmful to the undergraduate experience and poses an existential threat to the eating clubs, potentially forcing many into financial ruin. If implemented, the report’s recommendation would sever past and present generations of Princetonians from their unique and tight-knit communities, reverse decades of progress towards diversity in the clubs, and throw the undergraduate dining system into disarray. I respectfully call on the administration to disavow this course of action, since the relationship between the University and the eating clubs is ultimately one of mutual benefit.
The eating clubs play a vital role in nurturing Princeton’s undergraduate and alumni communities. The Huron Report itself emphasized that “students who are a part of [an] eating club are more satisfied than those who identify as Independent or have selected a meal plan.” The eating clubs provide a convenient location to eat, as well as a vibrant campus social scene with robust safety measures, including hiring professional bouncers, running SHARE training for members, partnering with PSafe, and defining policies around after-dark events. The rich and longstanding history of the eating clubs also helps members feel a sense of investment in a beloved campus tradition. There’s a reason Princeton has the most loyal alumni in the Ivy League — long after graduation, students who were in eating clubs have a lifelong home on campus to come back to.
However, requiring all juniors and seniors to purchase a campus dining meal plan would threaten these benefits. Few Princetonians would be able to afford both their eating club fees and a campus meal plan, so requiring such a plan is tantamount to forcing most students to give up their eating club memberships. Notably, the Huron Report does not recommend that the University readjust their increased food budget for juniors and seniors to be higher, which could shield students on financial aid from the worst of the effects. With a decimated pool of potential members, most if not all eating clubs would simply not be able to continue operation — especially in the face of sky-high property taxes, multiple forms of insurance, and rising inflation in the food industry.
The report is, at the moment, a recommendation. But the stakes are high. Every time in the past a club has closed on the Street has been a heartbreaking experience for its undergraduate and alumni members. In particular, stripping alumni of their “home away from home” at Princeton would lessen their connection to campus and the University. According to the Huron Report itself, “Alumni eating club members expressed a high degree of affinity for their club, describing it as a defining element of the residential experience. The eating clubs were cited as motivators for alumni to return to campus.” This is due in no small part to the fiercely proud and tight-knit communities we are able to form at the eating clubs, which remain near and dear to alumni hearts even decades after they graduate.
Furthermore, following the Huron Report’s recommendation would reverse decades of painstaking and fruitful progress on eating club diversity. The eating clubs today are more diverse in terms of race, gender, and socioeconomic background than they have ever been before. But if all students were required to purchase a campus dining plan, only the most wealthy and privileged Princetonians would be able to afford an eating club membership on top of it. Instead of being able to serve large majorities of Princeton’s student population, the clubs would only be able to cater to the “one percent,” turning into regressive and anachronistic versions of themselves that nobody, especially the current and increasingly diverse membership of the clubs, wants them to be.
Lastly, requiring all juniors and seniors to purchase campus dining plans would negatively impact the general undergraduate dining experience, including first-years and sophomores, as well as the students who choose to remain on a dining hall plan in their upperclass years. The current dining hall options are already crowded, with long lines winding through the serveries and teeming with unfamiliar faces. Jamming several thousand additional juniors and seniors into an already overburdened and crowded campus dining system would exacerbate these issues, no matter how many gleaming new dining halls rise at Hobson or other farther locations.
Both of us, the University and the eating clubs, ultimately share the same goal: making the undergraduate experience as enriching and rewarding as possible and fostering an enthusiastic and involved alumni community. Adopting the Huron Report’s recommendation to force every student to purchase a campus dining meal plan, even if they have another full meal plan, would be counterproductive to that mutual goal. It would take away one of the most beloved Princeton traditions, reversing decades of progress and worsening the Princeton experience for all students, regardless of whether they participate in an eating club. I am, respectfully, offering my advice to the University to reject this ill-conceived recommendation.
Vincent Jiang ’25 is the President Emeritus of the Interclub Council, the organization composed of the eleven undergraduate eating club presidents at Princeton University. He can be reached at vincentjiang[at]princeton.edu.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.This Valentine’s Day season, love is in the air and the numbers. Though the legend says — depending on who you ask — that 50 or 75 or 90 percent of Princetonians find love during their time as undergraduates, The Daily Princetonian analyzed responses from the Frosh and Senior surveys about love, sex, and romance to distinguish fact from fiction.
Here’s what the numbers tell us about love in the Orange Bubble:
According to the Frosh Surveys for the Classes of 2026, 2027, and 2028, an average of 69.8 percent of Princeton first-years are single upon starting their first semester of college. This number decreases to 46.2 percent for graduating seniors from the Classes of 2022, 2023, and 2024.
These trends suggest that a significant part of the undergraduate student body enters a relationship during their four years at Princeton.
However, it’s not all sunshine and orange-hued rainbows — in the 2024 Senior Survey, 2.4 percent of the surveyed seniors reported cheating on a partner. Another challenge for underclass students is navigating elements of hook-up culture at Princeton. Only 27 percent of first-years have had sex before coming to Princeton.
In fact, according to the 2028 Frosh Survey, only 55 percent of this year’s incoming first-years had had their first kiss before they arrived on campus this Fall.
However, by senior year, this significantly changes, as, on average, 74 percent of outgoing seniors are no longer virgins.
If you haven’t found your match yet, you are not alone and might be part of the 46.2 percent of Princeton seniors who leave the Commencement ceremony single.
Additionally, while more than half of the surveyed seniors in relationships met at Princeton, the majority of the married seniors met their spouse outside of the Orange Bubble.
Then where does the 70 percent figure come from? Alumni often testify to reconnecting with former classmates long after graduation.
Another way that Princetonians meet on campus is through the Marriage Pact. The question-based algorithm matches students based on their compatibility, and though the Marriage Pact code remains mysterious, its creators claim that their methods are “research-backed.” During Valentine’s Day in 2024, 2,000 people signed up for the Marriage Pact and 1,500 for Datamatch, hoping to find “the one.”
So, if love hasn’t found you yet, who knows when it might come? The numbers say it could be just around the corner.
Iman Monfopa Kone is a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the authors’ views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
Columbia University appears to have given in to the government’s anti-constitutional  and autocratic attack on free speech and the rule of law. In the face of Project 2025-inspired demands from the Trump administration, Columbia expelled students and revoked degrees. On Friday, they announced further concessions, including, most concerningly to us, the removal of academic self-governance from the Department of Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies.
After all of this, the restoration of $400 million in research grants, including lifesaving clinical trials and training grants for postdocs and students, is still not guaranteed. And as President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 has aptly put it, “once you make concessions once, it’s hard not to make them again.”
It may be easy to label Columbia’s actions as capitulation. However, when the full force of the U.S. government is set against any single institution, resistance is difficult.
But it’s not just Columbia. Princeton, along with 59 others, is on a list of universities targeted by the administration. President Eisgruber has started the pushback, standing up on behalf of academic freedom and saying that the Trump administration is attacking higher education. Professors, students, other universities, and the public should join him: When targeting one institution is a bald attempt to divide and conquer, as is the case with Columbia, it is essential for a coalition or group of institutions and individuals to stand up together.
Threats to university research directly affect student opportunity. Here at Princeton, students can work with world-class scientists and scholars, opening gateways to medical and graduate schools. If labs close, that opportunity shrinks: Students will have fewer opportunities to do research and build their futures.
The recent hiring freeze here at Princeton and at peer institutions such as Harvard and Penn is an early warning sign. Elsewhere, graduate schools are rescinding offers to college seniors. The damage threatens to encompass all fields including social sciences, engineering, and humanities, devaluing the degrees all students are working toward.
Do not be fooled by those who wish to use impassioned debates within higher education as a means of driving us apart. Last year Congressional Republicans used the war in Gaza and the ensuing student protests as a wedge. Now, inspired by strategists like Christopher Rufo, the administration is going after programs with words like “diversity.” They will continue to look for points of legitimate disagreement, then lean into those points to advance autocracy.
Some values transcend ideology or party. Colleges and universities have been a pillar of American strength throughout Democratic and Republican governments over the last hundred years. That pillar is now under threat as part of a broader attack on a law-based society, and as part of a larger assault on institutions, from Social Security to flight safety.
As Lee Bollinger, former president of Columbia and the University of Michigan, has put it, we are in the midst of an authoritarian takeover. In the midst of this, standing up for higher education is part of a larger defense of the whole nation’s well-being and the rules-based system that has allowed the nation to prosper.
Some may be apprehensive of speaking out in isolation. However, there is no reward for obeying in advance. A successful response requires action, together. In Erica Chenoweth and Maria J. Stephan’s work on nonviolent movements around the world, they found that if a movement spreads to even a few percent of the population, success becomes more likely than not. Furthermore, there are network effects: 10 times as many people can potentially make 100 times the impact. Just like individuals, when colleges and universities work together, they will be stronger.
Indeed, for maximum effect, higher education will have to find as many allies as possible. We can enlist everyone who has benefited from publicly-funded research, including treatments for cancer and childhood illnesses, batteries, HDTV, the Internet, weather forecasting, and more. We must remind the public that the discoveries of research translate basic science to health, prosperity, and security, touching billions. Without protection from the public, this accumulated capacity for greatness won’t survive the illegal assaults on our education system.
President Eisgruber wrote that Princeton and other institutions should engage in “forceful litigation.” But he has institutional responsibilities, both at Princeton and his role at the Association of American Universities, that limit what he can say or do. That is where the rest of us come in.
We scholars cannot let the government hold our work hostage. Science funding is being withheld in retaliation for protected free speech. We are passionate about science and its benefits to society, but we fear more what will happen if we do not help defend everyone’s fundamental rights. Freedom of expression and inquiry come first. If we lose these, we are at risk of losing not only science, but the entire educational enterprise — and broader freedoms in all society. In another sector, some big law firms are defending themselves. Like them, we must speak out for both ourselves and for society.
Finally: Students, we urge you to do your part. Use your critical thinking skills, and notice that institutions are letting us down. As faculty, our methods of communication involve paragraphs. Through new media like TikTok, you can craft compelling messages about science, learning, and freedom. Go in person to protest against the external threat. Use your freedom. Use your power.
We must not shrink from this moment. We hope that President Eisgruber’s example is amplified by all of us, for the sake of Princeton, Columbia, and the nation.
Sam Wang is a professor of Neuroscience. He can be reached at sswang[at]princeton.edu.
Andrew Leifer is an associate professor of Neuroscience and Physics. Jonathan Pillow, David Tank, and Ilana Witten are professors of Neuroscience.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 was irked at the unscripted questions.
At the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) meeting on Monday, Eisgruber was confronted with queries on the Trump administration and University governance from several students who had skirted the committee’s rules on submitting questions on advance.
The first question came from Vasanth Visweswaran ’28, who asked Eisgruber how he could use his position as chair of the Association of American Universities (AAU) to “defend all members of the University community from the recent Trump administration attacks on free speech, funding cuts and threats for deportations.”
“That’s not the question you submitted,” Eisgruber immediately responded. “Look, I’m gonna answer as best I can,” he continued.
“I think it is very important that we speak up about the good that higher education and universities do in our society,” Eisgruber said. He highlighted his roles as the board chair of the Association of American Universities and president of the University in defending the importance of higher education, citing an article he published in The Atlantic on March 19 condemning federal funding cuts at Columbia.
“I think that’s very different from opposing particular government officials or an administration,” he said in reference to defending universities.
“I would hope that anyone who takes a stand about wanting America to be great, [recognizes] that part of America’s greatness depends on the greatness of our research universities,” Eisgruber continued.
Historically, Eisgruber has embraced his role as a voice for higher education and the University — defending affirmative action or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients in Washington, for example. He also recently appeared on PBS News to discuss the implications of Columbia University’s policy responses to the Trump administration. On campus, however, Eisgruber characterizes himself as an administrator, not a politician.
The awkward exchange between administrator and student activist was unusual for a meeting that is typically procedurally rigid. Eisgruber’s responses were largely consistent with his restrained style and insistence on respecting University procedure.
The next question came from Rowan Johnson ’27, and was also unscripted.
“Will you be able to promise that you will not capitulate to the anti-democratic demands of the Trump administration, like the administration of Columbia University has done?” Johnson asked.
Eisgruber objected similarly. “These questions are not the questions that came in, you guys ... I think it’s important that we hold to the procedures,” he continued. However, he did engage with the question, adding, “I will just say that Princeton University will stand firm for its values and mission.”
The final question was asked by Zach Goldberg ’28. “I hope this is the question that you submitted in advance,” said Eisgruber.
Goldberg answered in affirmation, beginning with, “this ought to resemble the question we submitted in advance.” Goldberg then expressed concern over recent Environmental Protection Agency plans, Immigration and Customs Enforcement deportations, and cuts to National Institute of Health funding, amid a slew of executive orders in the first few months of the Trump Administration.
“Will the University commit to giving students a real seat at the table when these decisions are made?” asked Goldberg.
“Again, that question doesn’t resemble one that at least was shared,” Eisgruber responded. He then praised the CPUC as a body that honors student involvement in University discourse. “The body we have right here is a body which is rare in higher education, in being one that allows for open deliberation and discussion of difficult issues in the University,” Eisgruber said.
Goldberg began to reply when Eisgruber added, “No, I’m not actually going to allow a follow up, because that question itself wasn’t submitted to us.”
Goldberg then called out to the crowd, “So, we will not have a seat at the table” as student members of Sunrise Princeton stood up and filed out of the meeting.
Eisgruber continued to the next item on the agenda, an update from the Resources Committee given by Jay Groves, the Hugh Stott Taylor Chair of Chemistry and Chair of Research. The update focused on a report of the Resources Committee’s decision earlier this month not to recommend dissociation to the Board of Trustees.
Next was Associate Provost for Institutional Diversity and Inclusion, Sean Maxim’s presentation on the annual Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Annual Report. “Princeton remains committed to our values of diversity and inclusion,” Maxim said, echoing Esigruber’s sentiments from last month's CPUC meeting.
USG President Enzo Kho ’26 and GSG President Amari Tankard both gave short presentations reviewing their goals and planned initiatives for their respective terms.
The next CPUC meeting will be May 5.
Nikki Han contributed reporting.
Cynthia Torres is an assistant News editor and an Archives contributor. She is from New Bedford, MA. and typically covers University administration.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.All eleven eating clubs on Prospect Ave. are known for their distinctive communities. As sophomores find their fit in terms of the eating and social community they choose to join for their final two years on campus, they must weigh out different aspects of each club that give them their identity. Interested in diversity? Look no further than Cap and Gown, where seniors report the most racial diversity of all the clubs. If your main concern is booze, Tiger Inn is the place.
These clubs have historically been a large part of Princeton’s social scene, with approximately three-quarters of Princeton seniors reporting they have paid dues to at least one eating club during their undergraduate career. With bicker season concluded and hundreds of sophomores settling into their new clubs, the Daily Princetonian broke down the senior respondents aggregated from the 2022, 2023, and 2024 senior surveys, looking at the most interesting trends on the Street. Every club had a sample size of at least 45 students, with five clubs having a sample size of at least 150 over the three years.
According to the past three senior surveys, 76.7 percent of seniors reported having paid dues to at least one eating club during their time at Princeton.
Across all 3 years, sixteen percent of respondents report being first-generation college students. Cloister Inn and non-club students had the highest percentage of first-generation college students, at 22.92 percent and 26.43 percent, respectively.
In contrast, Cannon Dial Elm Club and Tiger Inn had the lowest percentages, with 7.94 percent and 7.69 percent, respectively. Overall, sign-in clubs — Colonial, Cloister, Quadrangle, Terrace, and Charter — had slightly higher percentages of first-generation students compared to bicker clubs, including Cannon, Cap and Gown, Cottage, Ivy, Tiger Inn, and Tower.
Cottage and Ivy Clubs had the highest percentage of members who reported a household income above $500k, with 29.17 percent and 26.92 percent, respectively.
Overall, 18.6 percent of students who never joined an eating club reported having a household income below $40k, the highest percentage of any category analyzed. Among the eating clubs, Terrace and Quadrangle had the highest percentages of members who reported having a household income below $40K, with 16.56 percent and 16.15 percent, respectively.
71.32 percent of respondents who have been members of Colonial Club identified themselves as Asian. Cottage Club and Tiger Inn had the highest percentage of members who identified as white, with 77.36 percent and 74.44 percent, respectively.
Politically, 43.36 percent of Terrace members identified as leftists/socialists, closely followed by Quadrangle Club, with 32.43 percent of members. Cottage Club and Cloister Inn had the highest percentages of members identifying as very conservative, with 11.11 percent and 7.41 percent, respectively. Out of the respondents from Cap and Gown Club that reported leaning towards one specific side, around 96 percent leaned left.
Terrace and Quadrangle clubs had the highest percentage of LGTBQIA+ identifying members. In comparison, Cannon, Cottage, and Tiger Inn had the lowest percentages.
44.9 percent of students who never joined an eating club had not had sex. Among eating clubs, Colonial (33.8 percent) and Quadrangle (33.3 percent) had the lowest percentage of respondent members who haven’t had sex. In contrast, Cap and Gown (93.4 percent) and Ivy Club (93.5 percent) had the highest percentage of members who reported having had sex.
Students who did not join an eating club reported the lowest average drinking frequency (2.42 on a 7-point scale), with approximately 27.6 percent reporting they have never consumed alcohol in a non-religious context, significantly lower than any club-affiliated group, suggesting that club membership may correlate with higher alcohol consumption.
Terrace and Ivy Club members reported the highest levels of marijuana use, with average scores of 2.99 and 2.67 on a 7-point scale, where a score of 3 corresponds to using marijuana “once a month.” In contrast, Colonial Club members reported the lowest frequency of marijuana use.
It is commonly said that there is a club for everyone on the Street. As class sizes expand and new classes join the eating club system, will Princeton’s eating club communities continue to evolve, or will their identities remain?
Danna Duarte is a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.“Brett’s a head coach,” Head Coach Mitch Henderson ’98 said of Associate Head Coach Brett MacConnell two years ago in an interview at Jadwin Gym after the Tigers defeated No. 2 seed Arizona and No. 7 seed Missouri in the same weekend to reach the Sweet 16.
Just two years later, MacConnell and assistant coach Lawrence Rowley have been asked not to return to the Tiger bench following a tumultuous season that saw the Tigers eliminated in the Ivy Madness semifinals despite being picked as the overwhelming preseason favorite to play in the NCAA tournament. While the news has not been announced by the athletics department, The Daily Princetonian was able to independently verify the information from sources close to the team.
Associate Director of Athletics for Communications Chas Dorman would not comment specifically on personnel matters other than to confirm that currently all members of the men’s basketball coaching staff are employed by the University.
The ‘Prince’ independently verified that MacConnell's contract is not expected to be renewed and Rowley is not expected to be retained for the 2025-2026 season.
MacConnell has served as the team's recruiting coordinator since 2013, proving impactful in shaping the program’s identity and the team’s recent successes. Junior stars Xaivian Lee and Caden Pierce as well Tosan Evbuomwan ’23, Jaelin Llewellyn ’22,  Devin Cannady ’19, and Zach Martini ’24 all have something in common: getting recruited by MacConnell.
MacConnell flew out to Leicestershire, England to watch Evbuomwan, giving him an offer despite his team getting blown out. Princeton was the only Division I school to respond to Evbuomwan, now the NBA’s only Ivy Leaguer.
He took a chance on Lee, an unheralded recruit in high school who has blossomed into an NBA prospect, and Martini, who received his first Division I offer from MacConnell.
MacConnell was also invited to Silver Waves Media’s Elite 75 Future Head Coach Power Lunch, an event that highlights potential future Division 1 head coaches at this year’s Final Four in San Antonio.
Rowley, meanwhile has been with Princeton since the 2022 season. From 2018 to 2021, Rowley played Division III basketball at Emory University before his senior season was cancelled due to COVID-19.
After graduating in 2021, Rowley spent a year at The College of New Jersey as a graduate assistant coach. The Lions went 10–14 overall that season, and the next year Rowley joined the Tigers’ coaching staff.
Since 2022, Rowley has been an assistant coach for Princeton, helping develop stars like Lee and Pierce. He contributed to a three-year stretch where the Tigers won 66 of 91 games and 30 of 42 in the Ivy League.
The coaching changes raise questions about the future of the Princeton basketball program. With the transfer portal now open, concerns about roster changes are also likely to pop up. In the new era of Name, Image, and Likeness (NIL) in college sports, star players Xaivian Lee and Caden Pierce are bound to be offered six-figure deals to leave Princeton. But NIL is not limited to these players, and others on the team may be tempted to consider the portal.
After a season marked by unmet expectations, these coaching changes add uncertainty to the offseason for Princeton basketball.
Doug Schwartz is an associate Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.Dear Sexpert,
Lately, I’ve been feeling overwhelmed with school. Between exams, assignments, and all the pressure to perform well, it feels like there’s barely any time to relax. I’ve noticed that the stress is starting to affect my relationship, and causing some tension with my partner. I feel like they are starting to feel rejected. They seem disinterested in our conversations (whether it’s in person or texting), they are not as receptive to physical affection, and have stopped sharing their thoughts and feelings with me, instead deciding to confide in their close friends. It makes me feel shut out. Overall, they seem distant. I don’t know what to do. I love my partner, but the stress from school has me feeling drained and emotionally distant. Could this be something temporary? How do I navigate the stress without letting it damage my relationship?
- Stressed Out and Struggling
Dear Stressed Out and Struggling,
First of all, thank you for reaching out! It sounds like you're going through a challenging time balancing the pressures of school and your relationship, and I want to assure you that you’re not alone in feeling this way. Stress (from any source, including academics) can have a huge impact on both your emotional and physical well-being—and that includes your desire for intimacy. You’re absolutely right to acknowledge how this stress is affecting your relationship, but it’s important to remember that this is something you can manage.
Stress can take a serious toll on libido. When you're stressed—whether from school, work, or personal life—your body goes into a state of "fight or flight" mode, which triggers a surge of stress hormones like cortisol. While cortisol is necessary for dealing with immediate threats, high levels of it over time can interfere with the production of other hormones, like estrogen and testosterone, that are crucial for sexual desire. As a result, you might find yourself feeling emotionally and physically drained, with little interest in intimacy.
This response is entirely natural, but it doesn’t make it any easier to navigate, especially when it starts to affect your relationship. When you’re overwhelmed, your energy and focus naturally go toward surviving the pressure, leaving little room for sexual desire or even emotional connection.
The emotional strain caused by academic stress can also influence your interactions with your partner. When you're constantly stressed, it can be hard to be present in your relationship. You might find it more difficult to communicate openly, feel less affectionate, or even shut down emotionally. This can understandably lead to feelings of frustration or rejection from your partner, which, in turn, can worsen your stress and create a negative feedback loop.
One of the main things you can do is to communicate proactively with your partner. Honest communication about how you’re feeling can help your partner understand what you’re going through. By discussing your feelings, you can reduce the potential for misunderstandings and open up a dialogue on how to support each other during stressful times. Be clear about what your partner can do to support you, and ask if they are willing.
For example, if you're not in the mood for physical intimacy, that’s completely okay! Instead, focus on building emotional intimacy with your partner. You can discuss with them what might help boost connection. Take time to engage in activities that you both enjoy—whether that’s cuddling, talking, or doing something relaxing together.
Additionally, it is understandable that you are feeling emotionally overwhelmed in periods of stress. It’s normal for stress to impact your libido, which can impact emotional connection. It can be helpful to openly discuss with your partner about what you need, whether that is talking more often, holding space for sensitive topics, or setting boundaries for your relationship. Participating in these acts are important forms of self-care. It is good that you are already noticing signs like feeling disinterested in communication. Continue to monitor your feelings and comfort level during conversations, and give yourself the grace to take care of your mental and physical health.
Most importantly, you need to find ways to prioritize your own well-being. Even during a busy academic period, it’s important to schedule time for self-care, whether it’s getting enough sleep, eating nourishing food, or taking a few minutes each day to decompress. Regular exercise can also help reduce stress levels and improve mood, which may in turn help you feel more present and relaxed with your partner. Try not to rush through your self-care with productivity in mind, instead allow yourself to truly use practices that serve and center you.
Remember, your libido is deeply tied to your overall well-being, and when you’re stressed, it’s okay to step back and give yourself time to recharge. By addressing the root causes of your stress, you’ll likely find that your desire for intimacy comes back naturally as you begin to feel more balanced and relaxed. Take care of yourself, and be kind to your body and mind as you work through this challenging time. You’ve got this!
-The Sexpert
The Sexpert is a monthly column written in collaboration between The Prospect and the Peer Health Advisers (PHA) program. For more information, you can visit the Sexpert’s website. If you are interested in submitting a question, you can send it through this form: tinyurl.com/princetonsexpert.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.The Davis International Center (Davis IC), Princeton’s center for international students and scholars, advised non-U.S. citizens at Princeton to carry their I-94 forms and “exercise caution” with regards to international travel, in an email sent on Friday. The email also warned students to “be mindful that electronic devices are subject to search when entering the US,” including social media activity.
The I-94 form, also known as an Arrival-Departure Record Card, is a form used by U.S. Customs and Border Protection to track the arrival and departure of non-citizens, and it contains proof of legal entry and allowed stay time. The document is given to all holders of sponsored visas, but not green card holders.
The advice comes the same day as new U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) guidance, which reflects a Jan. 20 executive order from President Donald Trump requiring all non-citizens 14 years or older to register their status with the government. According to USCIS, “Once an alien has registered and appeared for fingerprinting (unless waived), DHS will issue evidence of registration, which aliens over the age of 18 must carry and keep in their personal possession at all times.”
According to the email from the Davis IC, “it appears that students and scholars [on nonimmigrant visas] should already be considered ‘registered’ by virtue of admission to the U.S. and issuance of an I-94,” but the details of the registration process currently remain unclear.
“We are reviewing the new registration process, and we hope that the government will clarify the details in the coming weeks,” the email reads.
It is also unknown at this time if or how the registration requirement will affect green card holders.
This message is the first piece of concrete advice sent to all international members of the University community at Princeton, and comes as the Trump administration takes a hardline against immigration that has caused much fear and uncertainty on college campuses nationwide.
Earlier this week, a French scientist was detained upon entry to the U.S. after messages critical of the administration were found in his phone. Additionally, Mahmoud Khalil, a recent graduate of Columbia University and green-card holder, was arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement due to being considered a threat to national security for his role in Columbia’s pro-Palestine protests. At Cornell, a student from Gambia was asked by ICE to turn himself in for leading pro-Palestine protests.
On a global scale, countries are updating their travel advisories to reflect changes in U.S. policy. Following the detention of several German nationals, German authorities updated its travel advisory to the United States. The United Kingdom has also revised its travel guidance in the past several weeks for any travelers planning to visit the U.S.
In January, as other schools advised students to return before Trump’s inauguration, the Davis IC issued no such warning. Davis IC Director Albert Rivera did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The email ended with notice of virtual attorney sessions, open to all, that the Davis IC is hosting on March 26. “Attorney Session: An Update on U.S. Immigration Issues” will be held at 12:30 p.m., and “Immigration Do’s and Don’ts & How to Prepare” at 8 p.m.
Christopher Bao is a head News editor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Princeton, N.J. and typically covers town politics and life.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
I am writing in my personal capacity as the former President of the Interclub Council to give the University some feedback on an important matter they are currently reviewing. From late 2023 to early 2024, the University hired an outside consulting firm, Huron Consulting Group, to examine the housing and dining undergraduate experience. Last summer, the Huron Group quietly released a 25-page report detailing their findings. The report is as opaque with its methodology as it is sweeping in the scope of its recommendations, the most extreme of which is a proposal on the last page to require all students who reside on campus to purchase a campus dining meal plan — including juniors and seniors currently on an eating club contract.
This course of action would be harmful to the undergraduate experience and poses an existential threat to the eating clubs, potentially forcing many into financial ruin. If implemented, the report’s recommendation would sever past and present generations of Princetonians from their unique and tight-knit communities, reverse decades of progress towards diversity in the clubs, and throw the undergraduate dining system into disarray. I respectfully call on the administration to disavow this course of action, since the relationship between the University and the eating clubs is ultimately one of mutual benefit.
The eating clubs play a vital role in nurturing Princeton’s undergraduate and alumni communities. The Huron Report itself emphasized that “students who are a part of [an] eating club are more satisfied than those who identify as Independent or have selected a meal plan.” The eating clubs provide a convenient location to eat, as well as a vibrant campus social scene with robust safety measures, including hiring professional bouncers, running SHARE training for members, partnering with PSafe, and defining policies around after-dark events. The rich and longstanding history of the eating clubs also helps members feel a sense of investment in a beloved campus tradition. There’s a reason Princeton has the most loyal alumni in the Ivy League — long after graduation, students who were in eating clubs have a lifelong home on campus to come back to.
However, requiring all juniors and seniors to purchase a campus dining meal plan would threaten these benefits. Few Princetonians would be able to afford both their eating club fees and a campus meal plan, so requiring such a plan is tantamount to forcing most students to give up their eating club memberships. Notably, the Huron Report does not recommend that the University readjust their increased food budget for juniors and seniors to be higher, which could shield students on financial aid from the worst of the effects. With a decimated pool of potential members, most if not all eating clubs would simply not be able to continue operation — especially in the face of sky-high property taxes, multiple forms of insurance, and rising inflation in the food industry.
The report is, at the moment, a recommendation. But the stakes are high. Every time in the past a club has closed on the Street has been a heartbreaking experience for its undergraduate and alumni members. In particular, stripping alumni of their “home away from home” at Princeton would lessen their connection to campus and the University. According to the Huron Report itself, “Alumni eating club members expressed a high degree of affinity for their club, describing it as a defining element of the residential experience. The eating clubs were cited as motivators for alumni to return to campus.” This is due in no small part to the fiercely proud and tight-knit communities we are able to form at the eating clubs, which remain near and dear to alumni hearts even decades after they graduate.
Furthermore, following the Huron Report’s recommendation would reverse decades of painstaking and fruitful progress on eating club diversity. The eating clubs today are more diverse in terms of race, gender, and socioeconomic background than they have ever been before. But if all students were required to purchase a campus dining plan, only the most wealthy and privileged Princetonians would be able to afford an eating club membership on top of it. Instead of being able to serve large majorities of Princeton’s student population, the clubs would only be able to cater to the “one percent,” turning into regressive and anachronistic versions of themselves that nobody, especially the current and increasingly diverse membership of the clubs, wants them to be.
Lastly, requiring all juniors and seniors to purchase campus dining plans would negatively impact the general undergraduate dining experience, including first-years and sophomores, as well as the students who choose to remain on a dining hall plan in their upperclass years. The current dining hall options are already crowded, with long lines winding through the serveries and teeming with unfamiliar faces. Jamming several thousand additional juniors and seniors into an already overburdened and crowded campus dining system would exacerbate these issues, no matter how many gleaming new dining halls rise at Hobson or other farther locations.
Both of us, the University and the eating clubs, ultimately share the same goal: making the undergraduate experience as enriching and rewarding as possible and fostering an enthusiastic and involved alumni community. Adopting the Huron Report’s recommendation to force every student to purchase a campus dining meal plan, even if they have another full meal plan, would be counterproductive to that mutual goal. It would take away one of the most beloved Princeton traditions, reversing decades of progress and worsening the Princeton experience for all students, regardless of whether they participate in an eating club. I am, respectfully, offering my advice to the University to reject this ill-conceived recommendation.
Vincent Jiang ’25 is the President Emeritus of the Interclub Council, the organization composed of the eleven undergraduate eating club presidents at Princeton University. He can be reached at vincentjiang[at]princeton.edu.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the authors’ views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
Columbia University appears to have given in to the government’s anti-constitutional  and autocratic attack on free speech and the rule of law. In the face of Project 2025-inspired demands from the Trump administration, Columbia expelled students and revoked degrees. On Friday, they announced further concessions, including, most concerningly to us, the removal of academic self-governance from the Department of Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies.
After all of this, the restoration of $400 million in research grants, including lifesaving clinical trials and training grants for postdocs and students, is still not guaranteed. And as President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 has aptly put it, “once you make concessions once, it’s hard not to make them again.”
It may be easy to label Columbia’s actions as capitulation. However, when the full force of the U.S. government is set against any single institution, resistance is difficult.
But it’s not just Columbia. Princeton, along with 59 others, is on a list of universities targeted by the administration. President Eisgruber has started the pushback, standing up on behalf of academic freedom and saying that the Trump administration is attacking higher education. Professors, students, other universities, and the public should join him: When targeting one institution is a bald attempt to divide and conquer, as is the case with Columbia, it is essential for a coalition or group of institutions and individuals to stand up together.
Threats to university research directly affect student opportunity. Here at Princeton, students can work with world-class scientists and scholars, opening gateways to medical and graduate schools. If labs close, that opportunity shrinks: Students will have fewer opportunities to do research and build their futures.
The recent hiring freeze here at Princeton and at peer institutions such as Harvard and Penn is an early warning sign. Elsewhere, graduate schools are rescinding offers to college seniors. The damage threatens to encompass all fields including social sciences, engineering, and humanities, devaluing the degrees all students are working toward.
Do not be fooled by those who wish to use impassioned debates within higher education as a means of driving us apart. Last year Congressional Republicans used the war in Gaza and the ensuing student protests as a wedge. Now, inspired by strategists like Christopher Rufo, the administration is going after programs with words like “diversity.” They will continue to look for points of legitimate disagreement, then lean into those points to advance autocracy.
Some values transcend ideology or party. Colleges and universities have been a pillar of American strength throughout Democratic and Republican governments over the last hundred years. That pillar is now under threat as part of a broader attack on a law-based society, and as part of a larger assault on institutions, from Social Security to flight safety.
As Lee Bollinger, former president of Columbia and the University of Michigan, has put it, we are in the midst of an authoritarian takeover. In the midst of this, standing up for higher education is part of a larger defense of the whole nation’s well-being and the rules-based system that has allowed the nation to prosper.
Some may be apprehensive of speaking out in isolation. However, there is no reward for obeying in advance. A successful response requires action, together. In Erica Chenoweth and Maria J. Stephan’s work on nonviolent movements around the world, they found that if a movement spreads to even a few percent of the population, success becomes more likely than not. Furthermore, there are network effects: 10 times as many people can potentially make 100 times the impact. Just like individuals, when colleges and universities work together, they will be stronger.
Indeed, for maximum effect, higher education will have to find as many allies as possible. We can enlist everyone who has benefited from publicly-funded research, including treatments for cancer and childhood illnesses, batteries, HDTV, the Internet, weather forecasting, and more. We must remind the public that the discoveries of research translate basic science to health, prosperity, and security, touching billions. Without protection from the public, this accumulated capacity for greatness won’t survive the illegal assaults on our education system.
President Eisgruber wrote that Princeton and other institutions should engage in “forceful litigation.” But he has institutional responsibilities, both at Princeton and his role at the Association of American Universities, that limit what he can say or do. That is where the rest of us come in.
We scholars cannot let the government hold our work hostage. Science funding is being withheld in retaliation for protected free speech. We are passionate about science and its benefits to society, but we fear more what will happen if we do not help defend everyone’s fundamental rights. Freedom of expression and inquiry come first. If we lose these, we are at risk of losing not only science, but the entire educational enterprise — and broader freedoms in all society. In another sector, some big law firms are defending themselves. Like them, we must speak out for both ourselves and for society.
Finally: Students, we urge you to do your part. Use your critical thinking skills, and notice that institutions are letting us down. As faculty, our methods of communication involve paragraphs. Through new media like TikTok, you can craft compelling messages about science, learning, and freedom. Go in person to protest against the external threat. Use your freedom. Use your power.
We must not shrink from this moment. We hope that President Eisgruber’s example is amplified by all of us, for the sake of Princeton, Columbia, and the nation.
Sam Wang is a professor of Neuroscience. He can be reached at sswang[at]princeton.edu.
Andrew Leifer is an associate professor of Neuroscience and Physics. Jonathan Pillow, David Tank, and Ilana Witten are professors of Neuroscience.
If professors like Timothy Snyder won’t choose courage in the face of authoritarian attacks on their scholarship and independence, who will?
When this content markets the prestige and exclusivity of attending an elite university as central to the student experience, it risks misconstruing the true value of our education as a status symbol and not an intellectual experience. This reinforces the cultural gulf between the academic elite and America at large.
The real issue is whether Princeton and every other Ivy program can continue to compete in a Division I landscape increasingly divided among the haves and have nots.On a day that started with freezing gusts of rain, I walked into a glowing Richardson Auditorium and was warmed by my first-ever jazz concert with the Princeton Jazz Vocal Ensemble and guest artist Becca Stevens, a twice Grammy-nominated jazz, pop, and indie singer/songwriter.
Starting off with a timeless classic, the whole Jazz Vocal Ensemble, consisting of nine Princeton student singers accompanied by five instrumentalists, performed “What the World Needs Now” by Burt Bacharach in cheery harmonies and riffs. Then the group split up into solo performances of more love songs, including “I’ve Got a Crush On You” by George & Ida Gershwin; “But Beautiful” by Jimmy Van Heusen & Johnny Burke; “All of Time,” composed by Paolo Montoya ’25; and “Never Break,” composed by Michelle Lordi, the ensemble’s director.
Afterward, Lordi introduced Stevens to the stage. The lights dimmed to a reddish spotlight as Stevens began her song “Queen Mab.” The first line floated in a haunting melody and echoed across the vocal ensemble. The lyrics were borrowed from a scene in “Romeo and Juliet,” where Mercutio warns Romeo of a female figure of beauty and terror, Queen Mab, who delivers sleeping men dreams of their innermost wishes. As Stevens sang about the “cover of the wings of grasshoppers,” “traces of the smallest spider’s web,” and “collars of the moonshine’s watery beams,” the music swelled with a cacophony of vocals and synths, epitomizing the terrifying beauty of Queen Mab’s dreams in the song.
Stevens has a conservatory background, having studied at the New School for Jazz and Contemporary Music, and it was there that she met the musicians who would eventually become a part of her band. In her Facebook post accompanying the song’s release, Stevens calls “Queen Mab” her “twisted nightmare rock anthem.”
Despite the lyrics about Queen Mab’s size — “no bigger than an agate stone” — the music is filled with deep, dissonant synthesizers that gripped me as shivers ran down my spine. Throughout the song, the overlapping background vocals and faint counter-melodies create a disorienting effect, blurring the lines between dream and reality much like Shakespeare’s speech itself.
My favorite piece of the concert was “Regina,” a song Stevens described as a “journey of the self,” fittingly accompanied by a winding charango melody and riffs throughout. “Regina” was increasingly rhythmic, constantly flitting and floating ahead to meet the upcoming verse. Stevens has said that the song began as pulling meaning out of the word “queen” until the idea of Regina became “a writing partner, a voice in my own head that I would call upon for guidance, confidence, a clue from a muse.”
As the chorus progresses, the piece flows into a powerful current of chords and clapping, while the lyrics speak of a lost childhood self: beginning from “a girl that lived out loud (she was something, always laughing)” to “Regina, won’t you come back home?,” followed by reverberations of “what happened to you?” The melody keeps wandering upward, as if pondering an unanswerable question, and then fades away abruptly with the last note.
During her solo set from her most recent album “Maple to Paper,” Stevens continued to fill the stage with her rich vocals, lyricism, and presence. Her first piece, “Now Feels Bigger than the Past,” opened with a verse about artists being underappreciated until their death, painting a vulnerable canvas of grief. Contrary to “Regina,” “Now Feels Bigger than the Past” has a bittersweet melody that swoops down into lower registers, with a more folk-like guitar wistfully strumming along. Stevens’ lyrics provide another poetic jab about how it’s easier to appreciate someone’s flaws after they’re gone; she softly sings “Imperfection is beautiful once the hands are gone / And the farther we are from failure, the more we see its charm.”
In “Wild Eyes Open,” Stevens dives into her mother’s death, which occurred only a month after the birth of her first daughter. The ballad’s intimate lyrics with poignant frames of her mother’s last moments with her granddaughter such as “She loved my baby girl / Just like the summer loves a storm” and “The best way to lose my hair, she said / Is watch it coming out in my granddaughter’s hands.” The ballad and intimate lyrics left a hushed silence in the auditorium, creating a feeling almost as if the audience was guilty of eavesdropping on Stevens’ private thoughts.
Immediately switching it up, Stevens then shared a completely opposite type of private thought. In “I’m Not Her,” Stevens introduces two women: one who films in outdoor exotic locations and is “sexhibitionistic for the voyeuristic” and another model “sponsored by bikinis that pair with pink martinis.” The self-evident title explores Stevens’ dark insecurities triggered by the pretentiousness of social media. It is an unabashed poke at her scorn towards the curated influencer persona and simultaneously addictive hate-scrolling. The outlier of the program, the song demonstrated another aspect of Stevens’ often brutally honest songwriting filled with something so relatable yet too controversial to normally say out loud.
Finishing the concert, Stevens was rejoined by the Jazz Vocal Ensemble, with a reprise of “What the World Needs Now,” where the audience was invited to sing along. Unexpectedly, Stevens’ yearning harmonies and heartfelt lyrics were exactly what I needed. Brilliant, poetic music and poetry was a combination that I could not wait to have stuck in my head, even after the songs were long gone.
Chloe Lau is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for Features and The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at cl2454[at]princeton.edu
Please send any corrections to corrections@dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 was irked at the unscripted questions.
At the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) meeting on Monday, Eisgruber was confronted with queries on the Trump administration and University governance from several students who had skirted the committee’s rules on submitting questions on advance.
The first question came from Vasanth Visweswaran ’28, who asked Eisgruber how he could use his position as chair of the Association of American Universities (AAU) to “defend all members of the University community from the recent Trump administration attacks on free speech, funding cuts and threats for deportations.”
“That’s not the question you submitted,” Eisgruber immediately responded. “Look, I’m gonna answer as best I can,” he continued.
“I think it is very important that we speak up about the good that higher education and universities do in our society,” Eisgruber said. He highlighted his roles as the board chair of the Association of American Universities and president of the University in defending the importance of higher education, citing an article he published in The Atlantic on March 19 condemning federal funding cuts at Columbia.
“I think that’s very different from opposing particular government officials or an administration,” he said in reference to defending universities.
“I would hope that anyone who takes a stand about wanting America to be great, [recognizes] that part of America’s greatness depends on the greatness of our research universities,” Eisgruber continued.
Historically, Eisgruber has embraced his role as a voice for higher education and the University — defending affirmative action or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients in Washington, for example. He also recently appeared on PBS News to discuss the implications of Columbia University’s policy responses to the Trump administration. On campus, however, Eisgruber characterizes himself as an administrator, not a politician.
The awkward exchange between administrator and student activist was unusual for a meeting that is typically procedurally rigid. Eisgruber’s responses were largely consistent with his restrained style and insistence on respecting University procedure.
The next question came from Rowan Johnson ’27, and was also unscripted.
“Will you be able to promise that you will not capitulate to the anti-democratic demands of the Trump administration, like the administration of Columbia University has done?” Johnson asked.
Eisgruber objected similarly. “These questions are not the questions that came in, you guys ... I think it’s important that we hold to the procedures,” he continued. However, he did engage with the question, adding, “I will just say that Princeton University will stand firm for its values and mission.”
The final question was asked by Zach Goldberg ’28. “I hope this is the question that you submitted in advance,” said Eisgruber.
Goldberg answered in affirmation, beginning with, “this ought to resemble the question we submitted in advance.” Goldberg then expressed concern over recent Environmental Protection Agency plans, Immigration and Customs Enforcement deportations, and cuts to National Institute of Health funding, amid a slew of executive orders in the first few months of the Trump Administration.
“Will the University commit to giving students a real seat at the table when these decisions are made?” asked Goldberg.
“Again, that question doesn’t resemble one that at least was shared,” Eisgruber responded. He then praised the CPUC as a body that honors student involvement in University discourse. “The body we have right here is a body which is rare in higher education, in being one that allows for open deliberation and discussion of difficult issues in the University,” Eisgruber said.
Goldberg began to reply when Eisgruber added, “No, I’m not actually going to allow a follow up, because that question itself wasn’t submitted to us.”
Goldberg then called out to the crowd, “So, we will not have a seat at the table” as student members of Sunrise Princeton stood up and filed out of the meeting.
Eisgruber continued to the next item on the agenda, an update from the Resources Committee given by Jay Groves, the Hugh Stott Taylor Chair of Chemistry and Chair of Research. The update focused on a report of the Resources Committee’s decision earlier this month not to recommend dissociation to the Board of Trustees.
Next was Associate Provost for Institutional Diversity and Inclusion, Sean Maxim’s presentation on the annual Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Annual Report. “Princeton remains committed to our values of diversity and inclusion,” Maxim said, echoing Esigruber’s sentiments from last month's CPUC meeting.
USG President Enzo Kho ’26 and GSG President Amari Tankard both gave short presentations reviewing their goals and planned initiatives for their respective terms.
The next CPUC meeting will be May 5.
Nikki Han contributed reporting.
Cynthia Torres is an assistant News editor and an Archives contributor. She is from New Bedford, MA. and typically covers University administration.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.As the stage lights dimmed momentarily and turned back on, an assembly of dancers spread out all across the stage, each proudly holding a large flag representing their heritage or ancestral nationality. The myriad of large, colorful flags accompanied the dancers as they draped them around their necks and smoothly incorporated them into their movements. The waving and graceful swaying of the flags, almost like a matador’s muleta, accentuated the light but rapid footwork of the dancers, giving a closer look at each individual nationality represented on stage — Mexico, Argentina, Peru, and Colombia, among others.
This piece, which centered on salsa, was part of a collection of Latin dances I saw at Más Flow’s dress run before the opening night of their spring show “Barrio Mío.” I attended the final behind-the-scenes rehearsal of campus’ premier Latin dance company, characterized by their high-energy performances and faithful homage to raising the visibility of Latin performing arts.
Between their dramatic, sharp leg movements in tango and confident hip swing in reggaeton, I watched filler videos, each clip ending with a slide that listed the dance style of the following piece. Though brief and thus easy to overlook in the moment, those ending clips showed the breadth and richness of Latin dance. They helped me appreciate the moves executed with swag in dembow, the cohesive energy that flowed through the dancers’ movements to the beat in cumbia, and the simple, repetitive steps that embodied a lot of suave in merengue.
This conscious effort to inform the audience about the particular Latin American dance style depicted in each piece of the show aligns with the company’s effort to highlight the vibrant Latin American identity of its members.
Victoria Caballero Quinn ’26, president of Más Flow, affirmed this intention to channel everything that makes the company what it is today onto the stage.
“We are marked by our cultures, our rhythms, the people that surround us, and our upbringings, and there’s no way that we can disassociate that from dancing. We thought about bringing that here and amplifying that on stage, through lights and costumes, and through our small community that we built here, which is not small anymore,” Caballero Quinn said.
Artistic director Angela Hernandez ’27 corroborated this sentiment, stating that they “really wanted to encompass what [their] cultures embody — the fruitfulness that comes with it.” She added that “it’s very colorful, vibrant, happy and just a celebration.”
The show included dances like baile del palo, which spotlighted Afro-Caribbean culture in the Dominican Republic, and parts of the choreography emphasized the lyrical power of the Afro-Dominican music that played throughout the piece.
Nicole Torres ’26 commented on her experience helping choreograph festejo, an Afro-Peruvian dance.
“As a Peruvian-American, co-choreographing festejo for Más Flow was an incredibly meaningful experience … to introduce a piece of our culture that hadn’t been showcased before,” Torres stated in a written comment.
Más Flow has committed to making itself visible on campus and fostering a welcoming environment for all those who share Latin American heritage or who wish to learn more about the community. As part of this initiative to elevate their presence within the student body, they have hosted many events to show how they celebrate Latin dance, culture, and joy. This included commemorations that honored Afro-Latino experiences, and a Haitian kompa workshop for which they invited a dance instructor from New York.
The title of the show, “Barrio Mío,” shone through in the fillers, which showed how the people in a place can help turn it into an intimate barrio where they feel welcomed.
Catherine Ruiz ’26, vice president of the company, explained that the fillers revolved around the idea of multi-generational homes and families, and the realities in which they reside.
“I think that was part of the focus of making it relatable for our audience and our members and bringing that to the greater community,” Ruiz said.
“Our fillers do a very good job of showcasing the daily lives that we live and the experiences that we’ve all had in very small ways. ‘Barrio Mío’ showcases the way that the neighborhoods that we grew up in, or neighborhoods that we visited through our childhood, kind of represent this small piece of who we are, even in the sense of like a diaspora,” explained Alanna Perez ’25, assistant artistic director of the company.
The filler videos also helped set the context of the performance within a familiar environment for Princeton students.
“We not only wanted to showcase these realities, but we also wanted to bring them in close contact with the reality of living in Princeton,” Caballero Quinn added. For example, she told me that one of the fillers was filmed at Lupita Groceries, a Mexican grocery shop located 15 minutes away from Nassau Street.
These relatable scenes, grounded in the realities of everyday life, also extended to the pieces. In the beginning of the salsa and merengue pieces, dancers paced around the stage dressed in casual attire to represent a diverse crowd of ordinary people going about their daily lives: having conversations with one another, going to work, talking on the phone. This casual-looking crowd then collectively hypes each other’s energy so as to gradually break away from their mundane actions and into the first choreographed movements of the piece.
As the show came to a close, I wished the pieces at the end, such as Haitian kompa, Puerto Rican bomba, and Cuban rumba, were not so rushed, but I thoroughly enjoyed the show’s authentic portrayal of the diversity and vibrancy of performative arts that constitute Latin American culture.
Russell Fan is a head editor for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached at rf4125@princeton.edu, or on Instagram @russell__fan.
Please send any corrections to corrections@dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.Held on March 1, Princeton Playhouse Ensemble’s spring concert “Foibles and Fables: Songs of Magic and Memory” in Berlind Theatre was a night of intertwined exploration between memory and nature.
In the overture, singers dressed in black and red creeped onto the stage, their backs to the audience. Their hands rose, fell, and swirled as they shimmied into three groups, hypnotically chanting “join us” repeatedly. The beginning set the stage for reflection and sentimentality.
Floating between a nostalgic and dreamlike atmosphere through a collection of cavernous sounds, each piece invited personal reflection and an exploration of the audience’s memory.
To begin, Director Solon Snider asked the crowd, “What [do] we make of our memories?” before briefly discussing the theme of change present in pieces like the arrangement done by Matt Cline ’27 of Steven Sondheim’s “I Remember.” In Cline’s arrangement, I appreciated how the serenity of the lyric “I remember skies” contrasted the perkiness of “soft as feathers” and “sharp as thumbtacks,” engaging the audience.
The next song, “In the Wind,” was the first piece produced by the Playhouse Ensemble as a group, led by guest resident composer Kenyon Duncan. The piece sings, “The way is changing. The air on all my sides is willing to learn my name,” capturing the loss of childhood and the transition into a new period of life. Within the piece, I especially enjoyed the poetic lines that anchored the song: “Have you ever thrown a kite before? … run with the wind you would be weightless, willfully guided by nothing but a gentle breeze.” Accompanied by members swaying their bodies and a lyrical dance solo reminiscent of a falling leaf, the wind imagery in this piece was truly brought to life.
One of my favorite pieces, “The Smallest World,” was composed uniquely for Playhouse. The piece uniquely incorporated white “memory balls” as props that performers played with in childlike manners. As the story progressed, the members’ experiences lit the balls up in several vivid colors. The piece was inspired by journal entries and other written materials shared by Playhouse members.
After, Grammy-winning violinist and composer Nathan Schramm and Broadway performer and songwriter Becca Stevens were invited to perform pieces from Stevens’ new album “Maple to Paper.”
“As composers, this opportunity to write for this big of a group is huge … It’s so hard to organize a bunch of students to do this for you … the fact that there is a framework for you to do it, it’s so underrated,” Cline said in an interview with The Daily Princetonian.
Upon the concert’s end, family and friends showered performers with flower bouquets and streamed out of the theater. Jenna Mullin ’27 told the ‘Prince’ that the performance “was magical.”
“It was going from all in Woolworth music building to being on stage and being able to hear the full orchestra … It gave me chills, hearing it for the first time,” she continued.
Along with the ensemble’s wealth of musical talent, the tight-knit Playhouse community drives a chemistry and connection that results in meaningful music.
“I hope it manifests into something so much greater and so much bigger,” Angela Kwon ’26 told the ‘Prince.’
The incredibly alluring and sentimental experience reminded me of the fading memories of childhood and growing older.
Irene Kim is a contributing writer for The Prospect and a member of the Class of 2028. She can be reached at ik7641[at]princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.“Brett’s a head coach,” Head Coach Mitch Henderson ’98 said of Associate Head Coach Brett MacConnell two years ago in an interview at Jadwin Gym after the Tigers defeated No. 2 seed Arizona and No. 7 seed Missouri in the same weekend to reach the Sweet 16.
Just two years later, MacConnell and assistant coach Lawrence Rowley have been asked not to return to the Tiger bench following a tumultuous season that saw the Tigers eliminated in the Ivy Madness semifinals despite being picked as the overwhelming preseason favorite to play in the NCAA tournament. While the news has not been announced by the athletics department, The Daily Princetonian was able to independently verify the information from sources close to the team.
Associate Director of Athletics for Communications Chas Dorman would not comment specifically on personnel matters other than to confirm that currently all members of the men’s basketball coaching staff are employed by the University.
The ‘Prince’ independently verified that MacConnell's contract is not expected to be renewed and Rowley is not expected to be retained for the 2025-2026 season.
MacConnell has served as the team's recruiting coordinator since 2013, proving impactful in shaping the program’s identity and the team’s recent successes. Junior stars Xaivian Lee and Caden Pierce as well Tosan Evbuomwan ’23, Jaelin Llewellyn ’22,  Devin Cannady ’19, and Zach Martini ’24 all have something in common: getting recruited by MacConnell.
MacConnell flew out to Leicestershire, England to watch Evbuomwan, giving him an offer despite his team getting blown out. Princeton was the only Division I school to respond to Evbuomwan, now the NBA’s only Ivy Leaguer.
He took a chance on Lee, an unheralded recruit in high school who has blossomed into an NBA prospect, and Martini, who received his first Division I offer from MacConnell.
MacConnell was also invited to Silver Waves Media’s Elite 75 Future Head Coach Power Lunch, an event that highlights potential future Division 1 head coaches at this year’s Final Four in San Antonio.
Rowley, meanwhile has been with Princeton since the 2022 season. From 2018 to 2021, Rowley played Division III basketball at Emory University before his senior season was cancelled due to COVID-19.
After graduating in 2021, Rowley spent a year at The College of New Jersey as a graduate assistant coach. The Lions went 10–14 overall that season, and the next year Rowley joined the Tigers’ coaching staff.
Since 2022, Rowley has been an assistant coach for Princeton, helping develop stars like Lee and Pierce. He contributed to a three-year stretch where the Tigers won 66 of 91 games and 30 of 42 in the Ivy League.
The coaching changes raise questions about the future of the Princeton basketball program. With the transfer portal now open, concerns about roster changes are also likely to pop up. In the new era of Name, Image, and Likeness (NIL) in college sports, star players Xaivian Lee and Caden Pierce are bound to be offered six-figure deals to leave Princeton. But NIL is not limited to these players, and others on the team may be tempted to consider the portal.
After a season marked by unmet expectations, these coaching changes add uncertainty to the offseason for Princeton basketball.
Doug Schwartz is an associate Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.“Anora,” this year’s Best Picture winner at the Academy Awards, is an unflinching portrait of a nightmare disguised as a fairytale. Written and directed by Sean Baker, “Anora” tells the tale of a brash, crafty New York City stripper who marries an immature son of Russian oligarchs. The second Anora signs her marriage license in a 24-7 Las Vegas chapel, she is destined for a bitter conflict with her new in-laws. Baker, a leading director in sex worker narratives, handles the subject matter with a mature and grounded lens. He crafts a vignette of a woman who may not get the security and stability she is secretly desperate for. Over the course of nearly two and a half hours, “Anora” is a sensual and frustrating tour de force in empathetic but realistic filmmaking.
Actress Mikey Madison effortlessly plays the titular character Anora, navigating the thematic shifts in the film with subtle sadness, immense vulnerability, and abject rage. No matter how street tough and savvy Anora is, she can never win against the sheer wealth and power of her new oligarch “family.”
Baker could have allowed Anora to be the victorious one. However, Baker holds true to a more authentic narrative, despite potential moments of frustrated dissatisfaction for the audience. Baker’s commitment to relaying this is commendable, and his execution heartbreaking. He crafts an exciting whirlwind world for Anora and her new husband, Vanya. Sex is fast and clumsy. Multi-level hotel suites are a given. There is an endless amount of drugs and alcohol. As Vanya’s posse drifts from party to party, eventually ending up in Las Vegas, Baker switches to fast handheld camera shots, à la MTV documentary. Anora settles into her new life with a wicked grin and no hesitation. Everything seems perfect — until it disintegrates.
Despite its darker moments, “Anora” is also daringly humorous. Actor Mark Eydelshteyn’s Vanya provides most of the laughter in the film. He expertly plays the role of a coddled child who will never have to grow up. Vanya bumbles through sex jokes and laughs through the sex itself. He spends his days playing video games and strolling around with a weed pen wedged in his ear. Although Eydelshteyn was shut out of this year’s award season, viewers will still leave “Anora” feeling that they just met a future Hollywood powerhouse. Both Madison and Eydelshteyn deliver captivating performances. At first, Vanya is boyishly charming, which Eydelshteyn encapsulates perfectly. He seems to care about Anora and is genuine in his excitement about their new life. However, Baker reminds audiences that appearances can be deceiving. Ulterior motives and weakness lurk beneath Vanya’s charm. When he abandons Anora to avoid his parents, his character shift is striking. My amusement with Vanya’s character morphs into disgust.
After Vanya’s disappearance, the film unfurls its middle section. Baker slows the whirlwind romance down and makes viewers experience the long, futile hunt to somehow find Vanya in the enormous New York City. Some of the film’s momentum is lost at this point, as the plot is shoved aside in favor of character development. At this point, the audience must ask themselves: Am I invested in these characters? Do I want to sit through their growth? If you don’t care enough about said character growth, getting through the next 30 minutes of big-city cinematography and little dialogue might prove difficult. However, I found that Baker put enough work into his characters for me to be invested. I wanted Anora to retain her dream life, even though I knew that she wouldn’t.
A particularly compelling part of the film involves the relationship between Anora and Igor, one of the henchmen sent to end the marriage. The budding relationship between the two is compassionate and complicated, yet Baker refrains from over-explanation, allowing the bond to develop naturally in the film’s quiet moments. He makes his final, poignant statement where he leaves them — two lost, lower-class people who may be forever reliant on the whims of the wealthy. His use of tight, lingering shots of the two reinforces their shared vulnerability.
Reality is far from a fairytale in “Anora.” Baker teaches us that wanting a character to win does not mean they will — a truth as frustratingly pragmatic as it is heartbreaking to witness on screen. Baker’s meandering middle and heartbreaking conclusion may turn some viewers away. However, his sharp sense of character creates a memorable cinematic gem.
Meredith Sneed is a contributing writer for The Prospect from Savannah, Ga. She can be reached at ms1290@princeton.edu.
In a return to our Tiger Tots installments from 2021, The Daily Princetonian interviewed Lucie and Constance, the two daughters of Sébastien Philippe and Christine Blumauer. As for advice to current Princeton students, Constance says “I want them to play,” and Lucie says “do more homework!”
Assistant Editor for The Prospect Lily Hutcheson reviews the play “Legacy of Light,” which explores the stories of two women in the interconnection of science and art.
The Class of 2029 marks the final year of the University’s planned four-year expansion. The ‘Prince’ spoke to six recently-admitted students about their acceptances.
Ivy: well connected, rich, international, coke in basement
Tower: very good food (tower grill), politics, theater
Cap: public policy, lgbt, liberal
Cottage: white dudes, golf team, old money from south
Cannon: athletes, athletes, athletes... athletes
TI: athletes, thots, sexual assault allegations, bad food
Quad: engineers, tinge of lgbt, drinking, jeff bezos
Colonial: asians, boring, bad parties
Cloister: swim & dive, lame, piss beer
Charter: good food, engineers, far (right next to equad)
Terrace: very lgbt, weed, hippie, stonerAs Princeton students finish their last midterms before fall break, the Honor Code pledge is becoming second nature to many. Princeton’s Honor Code binds students to a set of academic integrity intended to be upheld by the student body. The Honor Code has been praised by some as a way to promote dignity and integrity, while its disciplinary process has been criticized by some as a mentally taxing and unfair.
How many students have dealt with the Honor Committee and Committee on Discipline, the two administrative bodies that govern academic violations and investigate and prosecute possible violations, in the last year? The Daily Princetonian looked at the statistics released by the two committees to see offenses students have been accused of for the most recent year with an available report and how many of these cases result in a student being found responsible. The statistics demonstrate again that the bulk of cases fall on the Committee on Discipline, whose case load is staggeringly high compared to the Honor Committee.
The Honor Committee is made up of 15 students, and decides on appropriate consequence after it issues a finding of responsibility – anything from a reprimand to an expulsion. Consequences can be appealed to the Office of the Dean of the College. Between fall 2017 and spring 2022, about 18 percent of cases referred to the Honor Committee resulted in a student facing punishment for their actions. A slightly smaller percentage of cases – 17 percent – progressed to a formal hearing, but did not result in a student being found responsible. This means that of the Honor Committee cases that had a hearing, just over half – about 52 percent – resulted in a punishment being handed down from the Committee.
The types of Honor Committee cases that had the highest percentage of students being held responsible were plagiarism and doctoring a regrade, though these categories only had one case each. Doctoring a regrade may mean changing a test that has been handed back and then returning it to ask for a regrade. Unauthorized use of materials had the next highest percentage of cases resulting in punishment, with 23 percent of reported cases leading to a student being found responsible of wrongdoing.
No students who were accused of removing an exam from a room, copying from a peer, or failing to submit an exam were found responsible by the Honor Committee for their alleged violations.
The most common type of Honor Code violation reported is the unauthorized use of materials, representing about 40 percent of all cases. More than half of the cases in this category did not specify the type of unauthorized material used, with almost a third of these resulting in punishments. Of the unauthorized materials specified by the Honor Committee, phones were the most common material used, with eight violations reported. Just two of these students were found responsible for unauthorized phone use during an exam.
Students have also been disciplined for breaking University policies outlined in the Rights, Rules and Responsibilities. These punishments are handed out by the Committee on Discipline, made of students and faculty. Since the Committee on Discipline has jurisdiction over a broad range of non-academic violation and any academic violation outside of an in-class exam, the number of cases are much higher by an order of magnitude.
In contrast to the more limited role of the Honor Committee, the Committee on Discipline has a much wider scope in terms of types of violations and caseload. 1,072 cases were referred to the Committee on Discipline in one year compared to just 76 for the Honor Committee over four.
The most common Committee on Discipline case type from the 2021-2022 school year was Health and Safety, representing almost 70 percent of the case total. Of these 742 cases, 730 resulted in students being held responsible. According to the disciplinary report, “the vast majority of the health and safety violations were regarding noncompliance with COVID and public health policies,” with reprimands coming after a warning. Of the 164 alcohol cases reported, 157 resulted in students found responsible for violating University rules, 109 of which came from a single, off-campus case.
While fewer than 20 percent of Honor Committee cases result in students being held responsible, over 95 percent of Committee on Discipline cases led to a findings of wrongdoing.
The Committee on Discipline has been criticized in the past for a more opaque decision-making process. In an interview with columnists for the ‘Prince,’ one anonymous member of the Committee said that certain other members lack “even a pretense of impartiality” during Committee hearings as demonstrated by “extremely leading questions.”
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ Dean of Undergraduate Students Kathleen Deignan wrote that “the Committee is explicitly told not to ask leading questions and to refrain from drawing any conclusions until they have heard from all parties during the hearing. We have not witnessed any student member of the Committee being pressured to assume anything about the facts until all information has been considered.”
For academic violations, the number of findings of responsibility by the Committee on Discipline seems to have declined over time, from 82 in the 2020-2021 school year to 50 in the 2021-2022 school year.
The harshest discipline the Committee handed down in the past school year was a one-year suspension, which they gave as punishment for a second academic violation in both cases where it was applied.
Students can be represented by Peer Representatives in cases facing both the Honor Committee and the Committee on Discipline.
Charlie Roth is a head Data editor and senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Ryan Konarska is an associate Data editor and staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.At the Oct. 6 meeting of the Undergraduate Student Government (USG), members voted to change the Honor Code process in two key areas, resulting in the approval of three additional seats in the Honor Committee and an adoption of the new “suspension (not served)” section.
This vote will allow the Honor Committee to expand from 15 members to 18, with the intention of ensuring a timely hearing for students accused of violating the Honor Code. In the past, the Honor Committee received several new cases at the end of the Spring semester due to cheating allegations related to finals. According to members of the committee, this made it difficult to promptly adjudicate cases, as members had to coordinate online and across time zones during the summer. The Committee hopes that the increased number of members will make these predictable spikes in caseload more manageable.
“[The] timeline of when the violation occurred affects how quickly a case can be heard,” said Honor Committee Chair Caroline Schückel ’25, who fielded questions on the expansion during the meeting. “That’s not what should be a deciding factor … cases being heard more quickly, and having extra capacity is really important because the anxiety that must come with knowing you have a case, and not knowing when it's going to be heard … takes a pretty heavy toll on people.”
Schückel stressed the importance of this expansion to support the student body, along with the second change in the Honor Code that also passed a senate vote. The new Honor Code now includes a section on the suspension (not served) disciplinary sanction for a case adjudicated by the Honor Committee.
This motion to implement the suspension (not served) sanction was approved unanimously by all members of the Senate. A factor contributing to its adoption is the harshness of a suspension. The University does not allow students to graduate in the winter, which effectively forces students to take an entire year away.
Schückel previously told the ‘Prince’ that the sanction is intended to carry the weight of suspension without requiring the student to leave the University, and will move the Honor Committee in a “kinder” direction.
“It’s really different to have someone be, essentially, not at school for a year versus probation for a semester,” she said. “Having suspension (not served) allows for ... a middle ground option.”
Schückel also facilitated the approval of five new members to the Honor Committee, selected through an application emailed to students. The selections were  unanimously approved by the Senate.
“These five stood out to us,” said Schückel. “We can teach people procedures, but we can’t teach people to be compassionate and to conduct themselves that way with students who are under investigation.”
The Senate will vote on an approval for the Undergraduate Student Life Committee’s budget request at a later date. The proposal includes funding for student roundtable discussions — first initiated in the Spring 2024 semester — as well as new projects that aim to bring together students and undergraduate student leaders. This request includes funding for wellness programming during finals week.
Devon Rudolph is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Honor Committee released statistics for the 2019–24 academic years at the end of March, following reporting from The Daily Princetonian on a two-year absence of the committee’s data, which are typically published annually. Data since 2022 had previously not been reported.
The statistics, released in a report aggregating data from the past five years, include violations of the Honor Code, such as collaboration with a peer, unauthorized use of outside materials, doctoring a regraded examination, writing overtime, and failing to submit an examination.
According to the Honor Committee’s constitution, the committee is composed of up to 18 members who represent the student body and address violations of the Honor Code. Article V states that “every year, the Committee will publish aggregated, anonymous statistics for the last five years.”
The chair of the Honor Committee, Nadia Makuc ’26, said that the delay in publishing the statistics was due to “clerical errors and miscommunication of responsibilities.”
Fifty-one violations of the Honor Code were reported from Fall 2019 to Spring 2024. Thirty-one of these went to hearings, or about 60 percent of all violations. Eighteen were found responsible, or 35 percent of all violations. Of the cases that went to hearings, 58 percent were found responsible.
The highest number of violations was for unauthorized use of outside material, including generative AI. These unauthorized uses of outside material made up 24 violations — or 47 percent of all violations — and 11 were found responsible.
The most commonly used kind of prohibited materials was listed as “other/not listed.” This consisted of 90 percent of all cases that were found responsible, or 10 out of 11 total. The use of generative AI falls into the “other/not listed” category.
The second highest violation was collaboration, which had 16 violations — 31 percent of all violations — of which two were found responsible.
From Fall 2017 to Spring 2022, the Honor Committee saw similar numbers. During that period, there were 76 violations, 27 of which were moved to a hearing and 14 of which were found responsible.
While the Honor Committee reviewed 51 infractions over the past five years, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board found 378 violations for the 2023–24 academic year alone.
Princeton’s Committee on Discipline is responsible for all academic integrity violations besides those that relate to in-class examinations. The committee consists of at least six members of the faculty, eight undergraduate students, and the Deputy Dean of the College. The committee also oversees behavioral violations, such as alcohol and drug use. According to the annual discipline report, many violations also get reviewed by the dean of undergraduate students through “Dean’s Dispositions” and the Residential College Disciplinary Board.
The possible penalties for those found responsible include a dean’s warning, a reprimand, disciplinary probation lasting three to 48 months, suspension lasting one to four semesters, a suspension not served, the withholding of a degree, and expulsion.
Of the 378 total infractions, the committee reported 63 academic infractions, for which 42 students were found responsible. These violations included plagiarism and collaboration without recognition.
The 2023-24 discipline report details an “increase in the use of generative AI,” such as ChatGPT, in the cases released from 2024. Ten cases involved the use of ChatGPT on take-home exams, where students copied directly from the AI chat.
The most common penalty for academic integrity violations was disciplinary probation, with 25 students receiving this penalty. Examples of where this penalty was used include a “very limited amount of plagiarism.”
According to the report, this type of violation also includes “reflecting carelessness rather than an intent to misrepresent authorship.” This includes instances where “the assignments were worth a small portion of the course grade,” or if the student failed to fully cite passages.
Of the 378 infractions, 158 were due to the use of alcohol — 42 percent of all infractions. One hundred and twenty-one students were found responsible. Low-risk alcohol violations included “the possession of an open container of alcohol in a common space” and having drinks with less than 30 percent alcohol content at the hosting of a gathering.
One of the penalties given to a student was 48 months of disciplinary probation for “submitting inaccurate information to the Financial Aid office” to obtain financial aid. Another student received 48 months for “striking a Department of Public Safety officer as they attempted to bring the student to medical care.”
The year before, from 2022–23, the disciplinary report disclosed 515 infractions, for which 336 students were found responsible.
Clara Docherty is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: this piece has been updated to better reflect the parties that hear the cases and the possible penalties imposed by the Committee on Discipline. Additionally, this piece has been updated to reflect that reported infractions are not referred cases; the lower number of students found responsible is because students can be found responsible for multiple infractions.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
Several academic departments have distributed emails warning community members about visits from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and information on what to do if officers come to campus.In the Undergraduate Student Government elections in December 2017, four referenda to amend the Honor Committee Constitution passed by a three-fourths majority. The referenda called for a range of reforms including increased transparency and reduced penalties. However, a few days later, the University announced that it would not permit the implementation of three of the four referenda because they were “too significant to be implemented without faculty approval.”
More than five years later, the ‘Prince’ reviewed annual reports and interviewed current and former chairs of the Honor Committee to hear their view about how their processes have changed since the rejected referenda. Honor Committee chairs note that many aspects of the proposed reforms were implemented following University administration’s approval and there have been other improvements to the process.
However, Honor Committee members also noted that the scope of the scale of the student-led Honor Committee pales in comparison to the student-faculty Committee on Discipline (COD). While the 2017 referendum drove the focus of reform to the Honor Committee, the COD handles the majority of disciplinary cases, including significantly more academic disciplinary cases.
Recent surveys have shown that the student body is deeply distrustful of the Honor Code.
For the second year in a row, The Daily Princetonian’s senior survey found that the Honor Code is extremely unpopular among students. This year’s survey revealed that 62 percent of respondents have a “strongly” or “somewhat unfavorable” view whereas only 16 percent have a “strongly” or “somewhat favorable” view. In 2022, those numbers were 55 percent and 23 percent, respectively.
These numbers may, in part, have been fueled by a ‘Prince’ investigation in 2021 which chronicled “a story of spiraling mental health, institutionalized alienation, and renewed hopes for reform.” There have been multiple criticisms of the Honor Committee in the ‘Prince’s pages: in 2022, Benjamin Gelman ’23 called on students not to  join the Honor Committee.
In the most recent Senior Survey, results found that most students do not feel optimistic about the trajectory of the Honor Committee with the vast majority of students saying there has been no improvement during their time at the University. The most recent substantial changes to the Honor Code were made three months prior to their matriculation.
“What I hope people will take away is that a number of the important reforms, like the standard penalty and whatnot, did wind up getting changed and have had a significant impact on the way the Committee does its deliberations,” said former Honor Committee chair Dylan Shapiro ’23.
The referenda introduced in 2017 had four parts: reduce the “standard penalty” to a one-semester suspension from a year-long suspension, require an additional piece of evidence outside of a report in order for a case to proceed to trial, prohibit students from getting in trouble from an Honor Code violation if their professor said it was allowed, and more clearly inform students of their role in a hearing when they are being informed.
The University initially rejected the first three, accepting the plank that witnesses to a hearing should not receive an email identical to the ones received by a student suspected.
Yet after a University process, the first and second proposals are now Honor Committee policy, along with other changes.
Dina Kuttab ’21, who led the Honor Committee as the reforms unfolded, recalled what followed the referendum..
“When those [2017 amendments] didn't go into effect, the administration put together a committee of students and faculty to say, okay, those reforms didn’t go into effect, but what can we do like what reforms can we implement that? Keep the spirit of like the student led reforms, while also like, being something that you can actually operationalize? And that works within the system,” Kuttab said
It ended up being a two-year process involving four report-producing committees, some of which were entirely faculty and some of which involved students, culminating with a Reconciliation Committee to finalize what changes to implement.
Since the release of the report, the Honor Committee has changed in significant ways. Prior to 2019, the standard penalty that the Honor Committee imposed on almost every student found responsible for a serious act of plagiarism was a one-year suspension. Now, that suspension is reduced to one semester.
At the same time, multiple Honor Committee chairs who spoke with the ‘Prince’ referenced that the University does not typically allow students to graduate in the winter. Therefore, when a student is suspended for one semester, they often need to take off an additional semester as a leave of absence. Current Honor Committee Chair Matthew Wilson ’24 highlighted this gap as a problem that should be sorted out.
According to Shapiro, the Committee has also adapted to the referenda and become more lenient in its sentences and now is permitted to use more discretion to ensure that its punishments reflect the details of the case. In order to ensure fairness, Shapiro said, the Committee has begun using a precedent system, citing past cases to when considering future punishments.
Another significant change to the Committee that was recommended by multiple reports is the elimination of character witnesses. Character witnesses would testify to the good character of the accused student before the change. The reasoning behind the change, according to Shapiro, is that the Committee assumes good character, rendering the witness redundant and a requirement that unnecessarily requires the accused to bring another person into their disciplinary process. The committee, as the referendum suggests, also no longer holds a hearing on a single report.
The only referendum policy that was not officially implemented in any form is that if the professor of the class where the incident takes place doesn’t want disciplinary action, there should be no action. While former chairs stated that this policy was not legally feasible, Shapiro told the ‘Prince’ that in practice, “[the Committee] would certainly take into consideration” the faculty member’s perspective when adjudicating a case.
Most students view the Honor Committee as a stand-in for the University’s disciplinary process at large: the Honor Committee, which dominates campus conversation around discipline and is a feature of freshman orientation. Before enrolling in classes at the University, students must sign the honor pledge.
However, the scope of the Honor Committee pales in comparison to the COD, which is not student led.
The members of the Honor Committee who spoke to the ‘Prince’ repeatedly emphasized that the administration and faculty have far more power than students in the disciplinary process, both through the COD and their veto power on any action taken by the Honor Committee.
In an interview with the ‘Prince,’ former chair of the Honor Committee Alston Carson ’22 said, “Obviously, it’s student run, I was literally the head of it, but I would say that for anyone who’s not on the committee, it would be really surprising to find out how much control is not actually possessed by the students.”

All cases of cheating during in-person examinations are under the purview of the Honor Committee, but every other violation of the Honor Code — essays, term papers, laboratory reports, and take-home examinations — in addition to non-academic violations of Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities, falls under the jurisdiction of the COD, which is comprised of 17 individuals, six of whom are students. On the other hand, the Honor Committee is entirely students.
“It’s an important talking point for the school that there’s a student-led honor committee, but what’s not really fully understood is that the Committee on Discipline, which is faculty led, has significantly more cases than the Honor Committee,” Carson continued.
In the 2021–2022 school year, the COD found 1,023 students responsible for disciplinary infractions, 50 of which were related to academics. The Honor Committee, which only releases statistics in five-year aggregates, found an average of 14 people responsible for violations of the Honor Code every year between 2017 and 2022. Throughout this time period, the Honor Committee only found the student responsible in 18 percent of cases referred to them. Of students whose cases made it to a hearing before the Honor Committee, 52 percent were found responsible.
There have been some changes to the COD. Most recently, peer representatives, who could assist students in Honor Code cases, can now assist students in COD cases. Yet compared to the referendum, the focus on the COD has not been equal.
“If the Honor Committee didn’t exist, that means all of the Honor Committees’ current cases would fall under the jurisdiction of the Committee on Discipline,” Wilson told the ‘Prince’
“The Committee on Discipline,” Wilson noted, “seems to get very little attention compared to the Honor Committee.”
Julian Hartman-Sigall is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.During the 2021-2022 school year, the Committee on Discipline (COD) heard 28 cases that resulted in a student’s separation from campus. Now, the COD is introducing a discipline sanction that may keep some suspended students on campus.
The COD implemented the “suspension (not served)” sanction as a consequence for violations where separation from the University may not be warranted. The new sanction falls between disciplinary probation and a one-semester suspension from campus in terms of severity, Deputy Dean of Undergraduate Students Joyce Chen explained in an email to The Daily Princetonian.
On Friday, the Honor Committee will vote on whether to implement the new sanction for Honor Code violations. While the COD investigates and rules on violations regarding academic work that takes place out of class and “serious non-academic misconduct,” the Honor Committee hears cases on potential academic misconduct during in-class examinations.
Between Fall 2017 and Spring 2022, the Honor Committee adjudicated 76 cases. During the 2021–22 academic year, the COD oversaw 1,072 cases.
Chair of the Honor Committee Caroline Schuckel ’25 told the ‘Prince’ that members of the committee were receptive at a preliminary meeting where the amendment was discussed.
“I think everyone on the committee fortunately aligns in the view that separating people from school, community, friends is not productive and is not something that people want to do,” Schuckel said.
If the Honor Committee votes to implement the suspension (not served) sanction, the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) will have the final vote on the amendment to the Honor Code at their meeting on Sunday.
Chen told the ‘Prince’ that she discussed the sanction during USG Ad-Hoc Committee meetings, as well as with several other peer institutions.
“From my conversations with the ad-hoc committee as well as other students over the years, it is my understanding that expanding the available sanctions to include suspension (not served) is appealing to students as well,” she said.
The idea was raised again at a quarterly meeting between members of the Honor Committee, University deans, and the Office of the General Counsel for the University. In the past, attendees also discussed the number of classrooms where exams take place that do not have clocks, leading students to check their phones to see how much longer they have to complete the exam.
Chen wrote that, if a student receives a suspension with or without separation from campus, the committees will consider whether their separation is “warranted.”
“As the facts of each case will differ, the disciplinary body will look at various factors, including the nature and seriousness of the violation, the nature and/or seriousness of any prior violation(s), or other circumstances that the body finds sufficient to permit suspension (not served),” she continued.
Schuckel hopes that the sanction, if added, will carry the weight of suspension without requiring the student to leave the University and move the Honor Committee in a “kinder” direction.
“I have had a hard time, in adjudication, with there being a lack of gray area between probation and suspension,” Schuckel said. “Those are pretty far apart penalties,” she added, expressing that the concept of suspension (not served) “always seemed like a very far away possibility.”
Like the traditional suspension, the new sanction would appear on a student’s transcript and their disciplinary record, which the University would release to a third party — like a medical school — if authorized by the student.
While Schuckel acknowledged the concern of some members of the Honor Committee that the sanction could be used in place of probation, she believes that cases would typically be “downgraded” to suspension (not served) instead of being “moved up from a probation.”
On Friday, the Honor Committee will also vote on an amendment to increase the size of the committee from 15 to 18 members in order to make scheduling easier and accommodate growing class sizes.
“We see this as appropriate,” Shuckel said. “I think as the University wants to grow class sizes, the reasonable inference would be that case number and case load could grow as well.”
Correction: A previous version of this article stated the Committee on Discipline (COD) heard 28 cases that resulted in a student’s separation from campus in 2023. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error.
Isabel Yip is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Everybody loves a secret space. From rumors of a shrine to Danny DeVito hidden behind laundry machines in Little Hall to whispers of a network of underground tunnels darting across campus, there's a certain allure about little known spaces on campus.
While some of these places are somewhat mythological, others are real, if you know where to look.
So today, the Daybreak team got a tour of these tunnels to find out how they're used, where they go, and why they exist in the first place. Listen in.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.This content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
On Sept. 16, the administration released a statement announcing that a member of the first-year class was finally rescued from the wilderness of southern New York.
The identity of this individual, as confirmed by the administration, is Mark McCalister ’76. Currently 69 years old, McCalister claims he has been searching the forest of Harriman State Park for his first-year Outdoor Action (OA) group for the past 51 years.
According to members of ‘Bear With Me,’ the hiking club responsible for rescuing McCalister, he requested to be brought back to campus so he could clean up and finish his Orientation events. “He said he was looking forward to the Step Sing and having sex with every member of his ‘zee group.’ I’m not quite sure what that means,” said Frederick Boothe, the leader of the group.
“When we found him, he was completely naked, except for a bandana he had fashioned out of an excrement-stained ‘NIXON’S THE ONE’ t-shirt,” said Amy Castillo, a member of ‘Bear With Me.’ “He was curled up into a ball within a nest made of his own hair, possibly of armpit origin.”
In an interview with the Daily PrintsAnything, McCalister refused to speak to any female reporters, stating that he didn’t believe any of them attended Princeton or knew how to read.
During the interview, McCalister repeatedly yelled at reporters to find his high school girlfriend “Rachel something” who has red hair and “the meatiest calves I’ve ever laid eyes on.”
After returning to society and learning to use technology, McCalister’s first tweet read, “I can’t believe RFK is running for president again. I guess he recovered from that assassination attempt?”
While the administration is boasting a successful end to a decades-long search, local police records suggest that no search was ever conducted nor was a missing person ever reported.
According to the University’s enrollment archives, it appears that McCalister was stricken from the first-year class list in early September of 1972, following the return of OA groups to campus. Foul play is suspected.
Sophia Varughese ’26 is an associate Humor editor. Her therapist describes her as ‘clinically bangable’.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.Editor's Note: This piece has been updated with comment from University administrators.
As the sun set over Cannon Green on Oct. 27, around 1,000 University community members showed up to participate in a "Community Gathering" to close the University’s inaugural Community Care Day, which invited “the entire campus community to focus on rejuvenation, reflection, and camaraderie,” as described in an email by the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Students Ian Deas sent on Oct. 25. While more than 2,000 students, faculty, and staff attended the event throughout the day, classes were still held that day, leading to some conflicts with programming.
The day’s schedule, starting at 8 a.m. and ending at 6:30 p.m., included stations for free food and drinks, as well as yoga, hiking, a rock climbing wall, and watercolors, among other activities. From 5 to 6:30 p.m., undergrads, graduate students, and faculty and President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 mingled at the Community Gathering on Cannon Green. Anne Laurita is the director of health promotion and prevention at University Health Services (UHS), which helped organize the event. She told The Daily Princetonian that the day was created “for our campus community to come together in cultivating an environment at Princeton that supports mental health,” adding that many events were planned in collaboration with students.
In an email to the 'Prince,' Vice President for Campus Life Rochelle Calhoun said that the idea for the event came last spring when "both undergraduate and graduate students reached out to me to express their concerns about the collective sense of loss the community was feeling." The event took seven months to plan.
"The students shared that they wanted more space and time to focus on wellbeing and mental health as well as find ways for the community to come together," she said.
"Community Care Day, in and of itself, was not designed to address the critically important issue of mental health.  However, as a reminder that we all need to find ways to mitigate against stress, be in supportive community and find joy in our day, Community Care Day lifts up this awareness, celebrates our supportive community and encourages self-care. These all positive mental health practices," Calhoun said.
“It was great seeing my friends outside in the beautiful fall foliage,” Daniel Wang ’26 told the ‘Prince.’ “I haven’t seen this many people together outdoors in a while, and it definitely impressed a sense of community.”
Elisa Gonzalez ’27 attended the free coffee giveaway at Campus Club with her Spanish class.
“It was nice because we got to talk outside of class and connect. I also went to decorate cupcakes at Frist, and that was nice as well,” she said. “I think this day was a good thing. It’s just a nice little reminder to take a break sometimes.”
“Obviously it’s not a single day that is going to [permanently] change anything, but I was happy to see that this is something that is being talked about and that the University put thought into the quality and diversity of the activities that were offered,” Thiago Varella GS said.
Judy Jarvis, executive director for the office of campus engagement, which helped organize the event, wrote in a statement to the 'Prince' that "I spoke with a number of students and staff members throughout the day, and many shared how appreciative they were that the day didn’t ask much of them."
"Our working group wanted to create a schedule that offered a wide range of rejuvenating activities, because rejuvenation means different things to different people," she said.
Other students expressed their interest in Community Care Day activities, but had trouble attending due to busy class schedules, office hours, and assignments due by Friday evening.
“I think the whole principle of the day — prioritizing mental health and wellbeing over everything else — is undermined by not canceling classes. I couldn’t attend most of the events because I had classes all day,” said Laurie Drayton ’26 in an interview with the ‘Prince.’
Jarvis acknowledged that "organizing a truly campus-wide event that includes undergraduate students, graduate students, faculty, and staff, is complex because wellbeing and rejuvenation means different things to different people."
Other feedback concerned unclear communication from the University. Gonzalez told the ‘Prince’ that “it was hard keeping track of everything that was going on because the informational email was a little last minute.”
Community Care Day contributes to a broader campus effort in the past two years to support mental health and student wellbeing at Princeton. Recognition of this issue increased in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. Organizers of the event also mentioned the deaths by suicide of three students and one staff member in the past two years.
In September 2022, a working group formed between the University Student Government (USG), the Office of Campus Life, and UHS published a report evaluating existing mental health resources on campus. The report made a series of recommendations, including 24/7 on-demand Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS), funding for transportation to off-campus mental health services, and residential college staff training.
Laurita explained the need for the broad variety of mental health support services and programs.
“At Princeton, over the past several years, we have seen consistent increases in service utilization at [UHS’s] Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS),” she said. “This pattern aligns closely with national trends, with young adults’ self-reported mental health concerns and utilization of clinical services for these concerns on the rise.”
“The spirit of this inaugural Community Care Day contributes to a broader campus climate around bolstering community well-being. It is my hope that the event served both as one moment in time for meaningful connection and to complement ongoing, campus-wide initiatives that promote student well-being at individual, group, and systems levels,” she added.
Community Care Day came together as a collaboration between the Office of the Vice President for Campus Life, Campus Club, Campus Recreation, the Graduate School, the Graduate Student Government, Health Promotion and Prevention Services, Office of Human Resources, Office of Dean of Undergraduate Students, the Office of Campus Engagement, Outdoor Action, USG, and the Class of 1961 Foundation.
Meghana Veldhuis is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Rebecca Cunningham is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.When the first-year class descends upon Princeton’s campus each fall, they are ready to begin the next chapter of their lives. Their first steps include attending events with hundreds of new faces, completing dozens of orientation sessions, and embarking upon orientation trips. These experiences help students acclimate to the Princeton community, but after orientation programming, first-years are faced with an entirely new campus landscape: in their absence, nearly 4,000 sophomore, junior, and seniors have moved back onto campus. Many students find this new landscape overwhelming; yet for some, the transition seems less drastic, thanks to prior connections to upperclassmen, which often resulted from privileged upbringings. To provide a more even playing field for all students, the University should create opportunities for all first-year students to build comparable connections with upperclassmen.
Some first-years are fortunate enough to feel comfortable in this new environment full of intimidating, intelligent, well-adjusted students.Their teammates, family friends — who are often known through alumni connections —, or former classmates from elite private schools that send a disproportionate amount of graduates to Princeton are here to provide them a safe-haven in this new place. Students who are not fortunate enough to have access to these connections, or to gain admission to a highly selective club in the first few weeks of the semester, are left to figure out Princeton for themselves.
The University is significantly invested in helping freshman bond on their orientation trips. Outdoor Action leaders must complete five “full-day” training workshops, with eleven additional hours of training, along with two weeks of camping and preparation before the first-year class moves onto campus. This indicates their commitment to creating an intentionally supportive environment. Similarly, the university coordinates with community organizations and lodging retreats to perfect the Community Action experience. Both of these organizations and the dozens of other orientation activities succeed at making a class feel more like a community. The administration seems to be relatively successful in facilitating bonds between students of the same year: Why can’t they do this between freshman and upperclassmen?
There are numerous reasons why having connections with older students on campus is beneficial for first-years. Upperclassmen can provide advice on a variety of issues including classes, co-curriculars, and social life. Students who occupy roles specifically oriented to helping freshmen, such as Residential College Advisors and Peer Academic Advisors, are useful and necessary, but do not replace the role of a friend: someone you can connect with on a casual and personal level. Older students hold wisdom and knowledge which they impart onto younger friends. They know how to behave around which professors, which clubs to join and which are too time consuming, how to get into certain exclusive clubs and co-curricular activities. As a first-year, I can attest to our desperate need for advice on these fronts.
Additionally, upperclassmen can serve as a tie into Princeton nightlife, holding the keys to eating clubs in the form of passes. Nearly 50% of upperclassmen are members of a bicker club — which tend to require list spots or passes to attend parties — and an additional 26% are in non-bicker clubs. As the only formalized party space on-campus, these organizations are campus life powerhouses. Yet what happens in these clubs is much more than partying — it’s networking. While the University may be apprehensive to promote first-year access to drinking circles, it is undeniable that they do have an interest in helping all first-years access the opportunities pipeline that they can be so proud of post-graduation.
Seeing as the University puts so much time and effort into integrating first-years into social life and “promoting belonging,” it seems strange that there is no effort to help first-years — who are truly new to our campus community — engage in such a central part of social life. Our University is a powerhouse for networking and forging relationships that become beneficial later in life. Princeton alumni notoriously look out for each other. Even vaguely knowing alumni in a certain field or having a name you can drop when needed can be hugely beneficial for networking after graduation. Students who come to school with a more privileged background have an advantage in this regard. If Princeton truly wants to promote equity, they must give all underclassmen the opportunity to benefit from these opportunities.
Obviously the University cannot dictate who students befriend, interact with, or help out. However, based on the general successes of orientation, the University seems to be both fairly good at and committed to, such as putting first-year students in positions where they have an opportunity to connect with people who are like them and creating lasting friendships. This prowess should be applied to creating inter-grade friendships as well. The new policy regarding allowing students of all class years to live in residential colleges is an excellent opportunity for intergenerational friendships to form. Residential colleges frequently host events for students that involve giving away food or gear as incentives for participation. Community Living Advisors are responsible for creating these spaces for upperclassmen, while Residential College Advisors do so for first-years. Making these events open to all grades, instead of separated by freshman and upperclassmen, would provide an opportunity for younger students to familiarize themselves with the upperclassmen who they live with/around.
Yet casual mingling is not enough to form a community — something Princeton appears to know, based on its orientation practices. Holding structured introductory events within Residential Colleges, based around common interests or shared struggles, for inhabitants of all grades would facilitate better community within living spaces. This would create opportunities for new and current students to co-exist and get to know each other outside of the intensely competitive and intimidating club atmosphere. Giving students who did not enter Princeton as members of the “elite” the opportunity to interact with older students is a part of creating equality on our campus.
Being a new person in a new place comes with lots of social adjustment, and as newly-minted young adults, it is important for first-years to have to bear some responsibility in integrating themselves into the community and finding their place. However, in the name of equity, the university should make efforts to level the playing field, when some first-years clearly walk onto campus with a leg up.
Ava Johnson is a first-year columnist from Washington, D.C. She can be reached by email at aj9432@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Every Princetonian knows that the first few weeks of first-year orientation are defined by two events: Core events and First Year Residential Experience (FYRE) events. Through a densely packed schedule of lectures, discussion series, and crash course seminars, these events are intended to rapidly acquaint first-year students with the culture and resources of Princeton’s residential communities.
Rather than building connections, the inflexible nature of Core and FYRE Events limits opportunities for frosh to build community organically. Princeton should embrace a more loosely regulated orientation programming structure to prioritize first-year engagement.
Orientation events are common requisites of the university experience. Columbia, for example, hosts New Student Orientation Program (NSOP) events during frosh orientation. First-Year Counselor Program (FroCo) Meetings are a nightly staple of Yale’s orientation programming. Yet, Princeton’s Core and FYRE Events are distinct in their quantity, style, and size, making it difficult for first-years to truly engage with their classmates.
One of the most glaring faults of Core and FYRE’s current program is the sheer quantity of scheduled events. Unlike universities like Harvard, which has four mandatory events over an eight-day period, there are well over thirty mandatory Core and FYRE Events in Princeton’s eleven day period. Over the course of the semester, the total sum of FYRE events surpasses forty, and on certain orientation days, there can be as many as five events per day.
At its peak, the overwhelming volume of these events nearly eliminates any downtime that frosh might have otherwise had on campus. Consequently, the lack of free time makes it difficult for first-years to explore campus or independently forge connections among their new peers.
The deeply structured style of Core and FYRE Events also prevents us from engaging with other frosh and the broader campus culture in more informal settings. Traditionally, these events tend to be structured in the style of lectures, where students listen to Princeton faculty and upperclassmen speak about their experiences instead of actively interacting with their peers.
Although students absorb factual information about campus culture, their learning experience is inherently limited by the lack of opportunities for student participation. Ironically, even as they learn about residential life with other first-years, they are unable to truly engage with those them. Arguably, Princeton’s small group experiences — Outdoor Action, Community Action, Dialogue and Difference in Action — do provide a window for more informal connection-building. However, as this only comprises three out of the total 11 days, these efforts are simply not enough.
If Princeton hopes to decrease the burden on the student body and provide opportunities for student-to-student engagement, it should reduce the intensity of event sessions. Consider Yale, for example. Orientation schedules at Yale bear several similarities to Princeton’s programming. For instance, Yale holds 25 mandatory events in an 11-day period whereas Princeton holds around 30 in the same interval. Yet Yale’s orientation schedule feels distinctly less exhaustive due how the University’s orientation programming is more effectively spread out.
Broken down, Yale’s mandatory programming averages out to three events per day, in comparison to Princeton’s average of four events. Furthermore, whereas most of Princeton’s events consist of hour-long lectures, Yale’s mandatory events include brief informal communication workshops and debrief-centered FroCo Meetings. Thus, in scheduling less intensive events, Yale effectively enables students to have more time to build stronger connections.
Furthermore, the present relationship between these orientation events and zee groups confines students to one prescribed group, instead of encouraging them to meet new people organically. Because zee groups are required to attend all Core and FYRE events together, and these events consume a significant amount of time, first-years spend an outsized amount of their time with a small, predetermined group. Because frosh are forced to spend long periods of time with their zee group, they are prevented from fully enjoying one of the greatest perks of college — engaging with the diversity of the college community. Plus, first-years who don’t feel close to their zee group may further face barriers in forming friendships because of how much of their time is spent exclusively with these groups.
There is a clear logic in establishing Core and FYRE as mandatory events. They orient first-years to critical resources and offerings at Princeton for student life, academics, and mental health. Still, even as Princeton seeks to facilitate the transition of its frosh to college life, it is equally important, if not more so, to build the community of each incoming class — at present, Core and FYRE Events directly inhibit this.
To address this issue, Princeton should restructure orientation programming to prioritize building frosh peer-to-peer engagement. In reducing the quantity of academic programming in favor of optional academic panels, Princeton could provide more time for first-years to socialize in organic settings. Additionally, by transitioning Princeton’s orientation programs from lecture-style to more loosely regulated social events, the University would be able to better facilitate more personal conversations, and by extension closer connections, among the frosh class. Finally, rather than mandating that students attend events solely with their zee group, Princeton should expand opportunities for students to engage with the student body more generally.
My personal favorite frosh orientation event, like many others’, was the Ice Cream Social. Why? Because the Ice Cream Social was the antithesis of Core and FYRE Events: optional, loosely regulated, and open to the entire class. In the spirit of the Ice Cream Social, the University should create more opportunities for first-years to connect with each other and relieve the burden of non-stop mandatory events.
Cathleen Balid is a first-year from Queens, N.Y. She can be reached at cb4649@princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.If you’ve read anything about activism at Princeton, you’ve probably heard the prevailing narrative that Princeton students are apathetic towards politics, with only a few committed students caring enough to speak up. This notion has become so accepted that it’s been expressed in this publication not only as opinion but even as news.
Until recently, I also believed this narrative.
But to current Princetonians and the incoming Class of 2029, I say: It’s not that we don’t care; rather, we feel we have no power to effect change. In short, our problem is defeatism, not apathy. And to fix it, we need your help.
Princeton students aren’t apathetic about politics. Nearly 95 percent of the Class of 2024 said they would vote in last year’s presidential election. Even when it comes to campus politics, the majority of Princeton students care: Last year’s campus elections saw a 53 percent student turnout.
So why do only tiny percentages of Princeton students show up to most protests? My colleague Frances Brogan offered some compelling explanations, but her argument that campus activism has become an identity and demands ideological purity doesn’t completely elucidate the way Princeton students approach activism.
A different reason for our absence is that Princeton students feel a collective sense of defeatism. Nearly every student I talk to is concerned about the Trump administration cutting funding and threatening international students. But almost everyone I asked about attending the April 5 protest against these threats expressed the same sentiment: It’s pointless to protest because protesting will never accomplish anything.
But this sentiment is flat-out wrong.
My appeals have thus far fallen on deaf ears among current Princeton students, and so I appeal to the Class of 2029 as well: When you arrive on campus, if you care about politics as so many Princeton students do, get involved in activism — because activism can work. And here’s how.
As students, we have access to three types of activism: moral action, mass action, and disruptive action. Past student movements have used these strategies to accomplish big things, on a national scale.
The first type of protest, moral action, is the kind intended to generate moral outrage amongst the public. Small groups of students have been able to accomplish this throughout history: The Black students who sat at a Greensboro lunch counter to protest racial segregation and refused to leave are an excellent example, as is Greta Thunberg’s school strike for climate. The goal of this kind of protest is to cause the public to wake up to a problem — and only works if you can publicize it.
The second type is mass nonviolent action, which intends to frighten leaders with the sheer number of people involved. That happened in 1976 in Soweto, South Africa, when 20,000 students protested against being taught in Afrikaans and rejuvenated the anti-apartheid movement in the country. It had already happened in the U.S. six years earlier, when four million students protested the Vietnam War.
And mass protest works. Harvard University professors Erica Chenoweth and Kenneth Wallach have shown that any movement that includes 3.5 percent of a population actively engaging in civil disobedience and protest is almost always successful in achieving its aims. To win, that can’t be in the form of one-off mobilization like a “national day of action,” but by persistent disobedience where large swaths of the population get involved and stay involved.
This is where college students have an advantage. We number 19 million across America, comprising well over five percent of the population. That’s why students have always been the catalysts for change. The structure for organizing mass nonviolent resistance — our campuses — is gifted to us, and the numbers are there. We should make use of our advantages to inspire national action.
But it’s at this point that modern student activists, myself included, have often gone wrong. The first thing we’ve gotten wrong is that we spend too much time mobilizing and not enough time organizing. The difference is simple: Mobilizing people is getting them to attend a protest. Organizing is bringing those people into the room to plan it. With more committed members in our activist organizations, we could accomplish bigger things and sustain a movement that encompasses the vast majority of students, rather than sparking their mobilization only in exceptional moments.
The other thing we’ve done wrong is that we don’t engage enough in the third type of protest, disruptive action. While disruptive action should be rare, disrupting normal proceedings is often the only way to force power holders to listen to your demands. It also often inspires others to join you.
But we hesitate to escalate to such significant disruption because of the elevated risk associated with it, even though effective disruption doesn’t always have to be outside the rules or the law. The efforts to disrupt the Naftali Bennett event on Monday are a recent example, and the large protest they inspired is an overdue reminder of the mobilizing power of good disruption.
Sunrise Princeton, the group I organize with, is building a coalition to demand that Princeton protects its people and research from the Trump administration. Others are working for justice in Palestine, workers’ rights, and more. To accomplish anything at all, though, we must have the people power to do it.
The defeatist mindset that saturates this campus is drowning our activism before it gets a chance to swim. But the Class of 2029 can help change that. If you were admitted to Princeton this year and believe, as many of us do, in the power of activism to effect social change, then you should choose Princeton so we can advance these goals together.
The only way we can defeat defeatism is with a strong conviction in our ability to win and a credible plan to do so. Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work, and with a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
Isaac Barsoum ’28 is a first-year intended Politics major from Charlotte, N.C., and a co-coordinator of Sunrise Princeton. He believes in the power of activism to effect positive change. His column, “A Princeton for All,” runs every other Thursday. You can read his column here. You can reach him at itbarsoum[at]princeton.edu.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.
I believe preservation of capital and significant liquidity should be Princeton’s guiding principle. Most importantly, there should be greater light shone on the endowment and how it is invested.As the new semester begins, TigerTransit, which connects University buildings, parking, and public transit, has implemented route and schedule changes that ensure more frequent and direct late-night service, more service on weekends, and better access for students living in residential colleges furthest from classrooms and athletic facilities.
TigerTransit’s design is meant to provide quick transportation between major locations with a walking distance of over 10 minutes, such as the commute from Forbes College to the E-Quad or Poe Field to Witherspoon. During the day on weekdays, four routes are in operation.
While locations remain similar to the 2023 routes, the updated Route 1 will make all-day stops at Friend Center on the way to Stadium Drive Garage, and Route 4 will connect the Meadows Neighborhood to Princeton Junction via Princeton Station. The Fisher Hall stop has also been moved closer to Washington Road.
Additional updates were also made to the night route, where one circulating bus has been replaced by two evening routes that now operate daily from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. The weekend routes, which transport students between housing complexes, campus destinations, and local shopping centers, will now have shopping stops “less than 3 minutes” from Wegmans, Whole Foods, and Trader Joe’s.
These changes are part of the annual updates that the University’s Transportation and Parking Services (TPS) implements before each academic year. Community members are able to give feedback on TigerTransit year-round through the “Tell us how TigerTransit is doing” page on the TPS website. This year, changes have been made based on feedback from over 300 survey responses from students, faculty and staff.
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ TPS wrote that “since 2022, TPS, Facilities, and other University partners have conducted campus-wide intercept surveys, including tabling during Frist late meal” and stopping people on campus.
The TPS website notes that “not every request or suggestion from the community could be accommodated in this year’s service plan,” and that the needs of the University community will continue to influence future improvements.
Since the current TigerTransit network launch about three weeks ago, TPS documents that services have seen about 3,500 boardings per day on weekdays and 1,100 boardings per day on weekends. During the first week of September, two of the routes that were updated were among those with the highest average daily boardings, with 1,118 riders on Route 4 and 885 riders on Route 1.
A complete guide to TigerTransit routes and updates can be found on the TPS website.
Michelle Miao is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.With 347 scheduled trips each weekday, the TigerTransit bus network serves as a critical transportation service for students, faculty, staff, and local residents across Princeton, West Windsor, and Plainsboro. TigerTransit’s stops include both campus buildings, like the Friend Center and Firestone Library, and local destinations, such as the Princeton Medical Center and Palmer Square. In some cases, it provides the only options for fixed-route public transportation to these destinations.
Yet with six lines, 27 destinations, and thousands of bus trips each week, many Princeton students — especially undergraduates — are unfamiliar with TigerTransit’s free-to-ride bus service.
“I think most students [know] it exists, but most are unaware of its scheduling and routes,” George Tidmore ’26 told The Daily Princetonian.
In light of the new restrictions on personal electric vehicles, TigerTransit serves as one of a diminished number of ways to get around campus. The ‘Prince’ broke down TigerTransit’s routes and schedules and identified key trips of interest to undergraduate students to enable them to get around campus quicker.
The TigerTransit service consists of six routes, five of which operate on weekdays. For the purposes of this analysis, we excluded the Weekend Shopper as it is heavily used by undergraduates relative to other routes and does not operate during the academic week.
Some students believe that TigerTransit’s route network does not serve undergraduate students well. “The system seems more oriented towards graduate student housing locations,” said Tidmore, a Forbes resident. Tidmore remarked that he had never used the TigerTransit system during his time at Princeton.
“The routes are sufficient [and] cover most parts of campus,” said Helena Ploss ’26. “I do wish they had one going through campus [up and down Elm Drive] that I would definitely take if I didn’t have a bike.”
“There are no plans for TigerTransit to operate on Elm Drive in the near future,” Director of Transportation and Parking Services Charles Tennyson told the ‘Prince,’ though he did mention that the University is taking steps to restrict construction vehicles operating on Elm Drive for the benefit of pedestrians and bikers.
TigerTransit is free at the point of use for all individuals. Riders must present a valid Princeton University ID to travel between Princeton Junction and campus on Route 4, but all other trips are free for use by the public.
Most TigerTransit service is geared towards moving graduate students, faculty, and staff from transportation hubs and parking facilities to campus.
“What’s difficult is that, given where most undergraduate students live, students would still need to travel to a pickup spot,” Tidmore said.
Tennyson responded to the lack of service to undergraduate dorms by stating that “there are many stops on most TigerTransit routes that are located less than five minutes walking from undergraduate residences and other popular destinations adjacent to Elm Drive.” We looked at three of these stops for our analysis.
Princeton Station: TigerTransit Routes 4, 5, and the Weekend Shopper stop outside Wawa in the Princeton Railroad Station bus loop. This stop is adjacent to Forbes College and is a short walk from the halls in the rear of Whitman College.
Admissions Information Center: Routes 1, 4, 5, and the Weekend Shopper stop outside the Admissions Information Center inside the U-Store in both north and south directions. This stop is convenient for students in Mathey or Rockefeller Colleges, as well as those living in Upperclass halls in the West Campus Area (Lockhart, Foulke, Laughlin, etc.)
Goheen Walk at Washington: All routes but the Weekend Shopper provide service at the intersection of Goheen Walk and Washington Road near Fine and McDonnell Halls, though Route 5 only provides service in the southbound direction, taking riders toward Yeh. This stop is especially close to Scully Hall but is convenient for all halls in the Poe Field area, including New College West, Butler, and Yeh Colleges.
We compared TigerTransit schedules to the walking times provided by Google Maps to see which trips are better accomplished by TigerTransit than walking alone. Our analysis is dependent on buses arriving according to their scheduled times, meaning that these trip times may not be completely accurate if buses are delayed.
To Friend Center and the E-Quad: When traveling from Forbes, the Rockefeller/Mathey area, or the Poe Field area (Butler/New College West/Yeh), TigerTransit is usually faster than walking, though this varies depending on the origin point.
From the Poe Field area, boarding Route 2 eastbound at Goheen Walk (Fine/McDonnell Halls) and taking it to the Friend Center stop is an 11-minute trip, four minutes faster than walking.
From the Mathey/Rockefeller area, boarding Route 1 eastbound at the U-Store and exiting at the Friend Center takes nine minutes, saving five minutes compared to walking. Note that only eight buses departing from the U-Store every 30 minutes between 7:22 a.m. and 10:52 a.m. deviate from the normal route along Washington Road to service the Friend Center and the E-Quad.
From Forbes College, boarding Route 4 northbound at Princeton Station and transferring to Route 1 eastbound at Firestone Library before getting off at the Friend Center yields a total travel time of 21 minutes, just a hair faster than the 22-minute walking time Google Maps estimates. Note that this itinerary depends upon the same eight eastbound Route 1 trips that deviate to the Friend Center and E-Quad, meaning that only eight Route 4 trips departing Princeton Station every 30 minutes from 7:11 to 10:41 a.m. make this connection possible.
“It was significantly faster than walking,” Dawood Virk ’25 said about using TigerTransit to get to the Friend Center from Forbes. “I believe after freshman year they changed the routes to no longer include a direct transport from [Princeton Station] to the Friend Center. They should definitely consider reinstating that route.”
Indeed, all TigerTransit routes once served the Friend Center, according to a 2021 route map obtained by the ‘Prince’ using the Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine. Today, just Routes 2, 5, and the Weekend Shopper serve the Friend Center, with eight Route 1 trips serving it and no service from Routes 3 or 4.
To Firestone Library: Forbesians can shave a minute off their travel time to Firestone by boarding Route 4 northbound at Princeton station and getting off at the Firestone Library stop on Nassau Street. This trip, which can also be used to reach upper campus destinations like East Pyne, takes 13 minutes. Note that return trips to Forbes require departing from Palmer Square or McCosh Walk.
To Scudder Plaza, JRR, and Robertson: Once again, Forbesians can make their trip across campus a tad faster by using TigerTransit. When traveling to the Scudder Plaza area — the intersection of McCosh Walk and Washington Road near Robertson, McCosh, and Wooten Halls — riders can board Route 4 northbound from Princeton Station and exit the bus at the McCosh Walk/Washington Road stop. This trip takes 14 minutes, again a minute faster than walking alone.
Mathey, Rockefeller, and west campus upperclass students can also use Route 4 or Route 1 from the U-Store to Scudder Plaza, but this trip does not save time compared to walking.
To Graduate College: Those on the west side of campus, including Mathey and Rockefeller Colleges, can travel to Graduate College and its far-flung dining hall by boarding TigerTransit’s Route 1 westbound at the U-Store and exiting at the last stop on the route, Graduate College. This trip takes nine minutes in total, saving four minutes compared to walking.
Those in the Poe Field area can also use Route 1 westbound from Goheen Walk (Fine/McDonnell Halls) to travel to Graduate College, but this trip takes as long or longer than walking.
To 185 Nassau Street: Downcampus residents can save time when traveling to 185 Nassau Street (the old LCA) and destinations on the east side of Nassau, including Hoagie Haven and Ficus, by using TigerTransit. Riders can board Route 2 eastbound from Goheen Walk (Fine/McDonnell Halls) and get off at Nassau/Charlton Streets. This trip takes eight minutes, almost half of the walking time.
To the Witherspoon/Jackson Neighborhood: The Witherspoon-Jackson neighborhood is known for its rich history and restaurant establishments like Local Greek. Located a half mile north of Nassau and even further from downcampus makes it a trek for students to reach, however. For downcampus residents, boarding Route 3 northbound at Goheen Walk and taking it to its terminus at Merwick takes 19 minutes, compared to 25 minutes of walking.
TigerTransit Routes 1, 2, 3, and 4 operate only on weekdays, while Route 5 operates on both weekends and weekdays. Routes 1 through 4 begin service at roughly at 7:00 a.m., with the last Route 1 and 2 buses departing their terminals between 8:30 and 9:00 p.m., while the final Route 3 and 4 buses depart their terminals between 6:00 and 6:40 p.m.
Buses on Routes 1 and 2 run every 10 to 15 minutes in each direction most of the day. In the evening, Route 1 and 2 are supplanted by Route 5, the evening circulator, which runs every 30 minutes between 7:00 p.m. and midnight on weekdays and between 5:00 p.m. and midnight on weekends.
Buses on Route 3 operate every 30 minutes during service hours. Route 4 buses operate every 30 minutes between 7:00 and 8:00 a.m., 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., and after 6:00 p.m., every 15 minutes between 8:00 and 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 and 6:00 p.m.
TigerTransit buses operate on regular intervals ranging between 10 and 30 minutes. We looked at departures from three stops close to residential buildings during peak morning hours to make recalling TigerTransit schedules easier.
From Princeton Station near Forbes, northbound Route 4 buses towards academic buildings depart at :11, :26, :41, and :56 on the hour. For example, buses depart Princeton Station at 9:11 a.m., 9:26 a.m., 9:41 a.m., and 9:56 a.m. during the morning rush.
From Goheen Walk near Fine and McDonnell Halls, eastbound Route 2 buses towards the Friend Center, E-Quad, and Fisher Hall depart at times ending in :8 from 8:00 a.m. to noon.
“Bus schedules don’t seem to align with class times,” said Ploss, “so if I want to get up Washington for a class at the top of the hill I’m better off walking [or] biking.”
Indeed, many TigerTransit schedules line up poorly with class times. For example, eastbound Route 1 buses arrive at Goheen Walk near McDonnell and Fine at :44 and :02 on the hour — either too early or too late to be useful for classes that start on the hour.
TigerTransit feeds data to the TripShot app to provide riders with live information about bus schedules, locations, and delays. It would appear that Transportation and Parking Services no longer provides TigerTransit updates over X (commonly known as Twitter), as the @PrincetonTPS account has been inactive since October 2022.
While TigerTransit primarily operates around the periphery of campus, it also extends into West Windsor and Plainsboro Townships. Route 4 extends to Princeton Junction, meaning that it can be used as a fare-free alternative to the Princeton Shuttle, commonly known as the Dinky. The ticket price from New York Penn Station to Princeton Station is $17.75, but the price to Princeton Junction is $16.00. Using TigerTransit instead of the Dinky means that travelers can save $3.50 on a round trip to New York or Newark Liberty International Airport.
We used our previous data on the travel times between New York and Princeton and examined how using TigerTransit instead of the Dinky would affect travel times. On average, return trips from New York Penn Station to Princeton Station are lengthened by eight minutes when using Route 4 versus the Dinky. However, Route 4 extends past Princeton Station, providing direct service from Princeton Junction to the U-Store, Firestone Library, and Washington Road, meaning travelers may save time using Route 4 overall by shaving off walking time from Princeton Station.
TigerTransit does not provide direct service to athletic facilities like Jadwin Gym or Princeton Stadium. However, all routes stop at Goheen Walk, which is a six-minute walk from Jadwin, and Routes 1 and 4 service Stadium Drive Garage, which is a four-minute walk from Jadwin. TigerTransit may be used as a means to reach these destinations, which is especially notable in light of the University’s recent strengthened regulations on the use of e-scooters and e-bikes, which are frequently used by athletes to get across campus to Jadwin.
We examined the travel times from the Rockefeller/Mathey area, Forbes, and Palmer Square to destinations like Jadwin Gym and the Shea Rowing Center. Our analysis found that using TigerTransit offered no significant time savings compared to walking due to the relative distance of TigerTransit stops from athletic facilities and the convoluted route buses take around campus.
According to Tennyson, TigerTransit’s bus fleet will be all-electric by the end of 2023. He also noted that the buses whisk between 1,500 and 2,000 students, faculty, campus employees, and community members around the Princeton area every weekday.
By combing through its schedules, TigerTransit’s utility to undergraduate students can be revealed as a frequent shuttle around the periphery of campus.
Ryan Konarska is an associate Data editor and a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached at ryankonarska[at]princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Princeton has historically been a walking campus — students can make the longest trek on campus, from Forbes College to the E-Quad, in about 25 minutes.
Transportation transformation, however, may be on Princeton’s horizon.
Simultaneously, students have become more spread out on campus, with more students living in the far south of campus due to the opening of two new residential colleges in 2022, Yeh and New College West. In August, the University announced a ban on personal electric vehicles (PEVs), prohibiting electric scooters, bikes, hoverboards, and skateboards from being used within a designated zone during “peak hours” of 7:30 a.m. through 4 p.m. on weekdays.
As students grapple with transportation options, transit patterns have been changing for some time. Ridership on TigerTransit, the University’s free bus service, has increased by 60 percent from pre-pandemic levels and by over 50 percent from 2022, according to Director of Transportation and Parking Services Charles Tennyson. The growing interest in the transit service comes as TigerTransit brings 17 new battery electric buses to replace its former diesel fleet.
“We suspect that a combination of increased frequency, greater visibility and access, and reliability of bus service is likely driving the ridership increases,” Tennyson wrote in a statement to The Daily Princetonian. For example, the Goheen Walk Northbound stop on Washington Road, which is served by four TigerTransit routes, has jumped from being the 12th most used weekday stop to the fifth busiest. From here, riders can hop on any northbound bus to avoid walking up a steep path.
Tennyson also added that undergraduate transit use from residents at Butler, Yeh, and New College West could be contributing to the increase of rides.
TigerTransit runs six lines around campus and nearby towns. Two routes serve the graduate student residents of the Lakeside Apartments and the Graduate College, respectively, while the Weekend Shopper provides access to groceries and retail shopping on Route 1. Another route runs to Princeton Medical Center, the Forrestal Campus, and the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL).
However, TigerTransit has also been criticized for its limited utility, as its route network operates around the periphery of campus and mostly transports graduate students, faculty, and staff from parking facilities to campus. In September, Tennyson told the ‘Prince,’ “There are no plans for TigerTransit to operate on Elm Drive in the near future.”
TigerTransit previously operated using a fleet of 14 full-size diesel buses and five smaller buses. By implementing the electric buses, 500 metric tons of tailpipe emissions will be removed from the atmosphere annually.
“Our air is cleaner because of this project,” said University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 in an event inaugurating the new buses. However, 500 metric tons represent less than one percent of the carbon emitted by campus operations annually, according to Tennyson.
The all-electric fleet is also relatively unique for a public transit system. According to a University press release, Princeton is the first Ivy League school with exclusively emissions-free vehicles. In the same press release, Tennyson said that the University’s charging station was “one of the largest electric transit vehicle charging facilities in the country.”
According to Tennyson, there are plans to change TigerTransit routes and service patterns to accommodate the new Meadows Neighborhood development across Lake Carnegie in West Windsor Township, which is planned for completion in Spring 2024. These service changes will be announced in early January.
Recent and future changes to the TigerTransit system are part of a broader landscape of environmental efforts on campus — as geothermal energy construction projects are ongoing and the University works towards a goal of carbon neutrality by 2046 — as well as significant campus expansion. Against the backdrop of a rapidly changing campus, students can expect that transportation patterns may also experience shifts away from walking and scootering and towards alternative modes of movement.
TigerTransit users can share feedback on the service with the University through its “Tell us how TigerTransit is doing” feedback form.
Ryan Konarska is an associate Data editor and staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Louisa Gheorghita is a staff News writer and photographer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.
Last month, Princeton University announced a restriction on Personal Electric Vehicles (PEVs) during “peak hours,” defined as 7:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., throughout most of campus. However, this de facto “scooter ban” has been ignored by many and, walking around campus, it is apparent that scooter use is still rampant. While the University has restricted scooter use, it has yet to update the campus transport system that could serve as an alternative: TigerTransit. A Daily Princetonian analysis aptly described the University’s bus system as a “shuttle around the periphery of campus.” But the center of campus, not the periphery, is where students need to travel the most.
Campus has grown and significant portions of the undergraduate student body live far south of where most academic buildings are located. “Space” around campus has changed, and connections between these spaces are not pedestrian-friendly, especially with construction detours and paths. While the University has launched the new Princeton Campus Map app to provide directions, taking into account construction detours and other path changes, this app only provides directions; it cannot magically change the campus landscape to speed up student commutes.
In order to truly speed up student travel, the University should invest in the TigerTransit system to include destinations where all undergraduate students need to go. The current routes do not serve the daily needs of the undergraduate population. For example, the only current TigerTransit route that has a dedicated residential college stop is Route 5, which stops at Yeh College. Even then, Route 5 only operates in the evening.
TigerTransit does not currently provide service where and when undergrads need it most: the morning and evening rush times. The morning “rush” on campus in the minutes leading up to 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. lectures makes Elm Drive crowded with students rushing to class, some walking and many still scootering — despite the official restriction. To alleviate this problem, the University should run a TigerTransit bus route along Elm Drive in a continual loop, starting near Bloomberg Arch, picking up students from Whitman, New College West, Yeh, and Butler, and then shuttling them up campus to East Pyne and McCosh Hall. Even if this route saves just a few minutes for students, TigerTransit can become a resource that students can use, meeting them where they are and not being an out-of-the-way burden. This Elm Drive loop would also decrease the current prohibited scooter use as a quick and convenient bus service would provide an alternative method of transportation for students rushing to class.
TigerTransit also fails to address transport needs during the evening “rush” at the end of classes. This transfer is crucial for athletes, who, according to the 2023 Senior Survey, make up 88 percent of scooter users. Since afternoon classes end at 4:20 p.m. every day, many athletes struggle to be on time for their 4:30 p.m. practice. While 4:20 p.m. is after the scooter ban’s end at 4 p.m., athletes would not have the time to return to their dorms to pick-up their scooters; instead, many scooter to their class, before the ban’s expiration, to ensure a quick transit. It is nearly impossible to reach certain athletic facilities in time from the academic center of campus by walking, which necessitates scooters for transport. One men’s soccer team member told me that he “was only able to make [his] practice on time because of [his] scooter.” Additionally, a member of the men’s water polo team shared that many players who have a semi-torn labrum, a common hip injury, rely on their scooters to get to practice quickly.
A bus service linking the academic center of campus, like the intersection of Washington Road and McCosh Walk, directly with athletic facilities would alleviate this burden. As of now, TigerTransit offers no direct connection to athletic facilities. In addition, according to a ‘Prince’ analysis, TigerTransit’s current routers offer “travel times that are the same or longer than walking times to athletic facilities down campus.” A different dedicated route could help solve this problem.
TigerTransit expansion, however, has benefits for the entire undergraduate student body, not just athletes. The Elm Drive shuttle, for example, would become a vital connection throughout campus for students traveling to residential colleges, classes, or facilities like Dillon Gym. The creation of new shuttles is also much-needed because PEV safety is an issue; the University shared with the ‘Prince’ that there were 54 safety incidents involving PEVs in the 2022-23 academic year — and those were just the reported incidents.
However, TigerTransit expansion shouldn’t be the only change made to campus; it should be the first of many changes. A pedestrian-friendly, convenient, and accessible campus also requires the implementation of protected bike and scooter lanes separate from pedestrian traffic, as is currently being adopted in cities across the world en masse, including a significant program in New York City. Even while the University is making massive investments in construction, when asked about specific PEV and pedestrian safety plans, a spokesperson commented, “as a part of the campus plan, infrastructure to best support pedestrian and wheeled mobility on campus will be modernized to improve the overall experience for all mobility types.” They shared no specific plans to implement safe corridors for bikes and scooters.
So far, the University has failed to provide an adequate replacement to PEVs to address the transport needs of a growing campus. The “scooter ban” isn’t working because Princeton’s geography requires a fast way to travel around campus. The University’s choice to prohibit scooter use during their most needed hours necessitates a feasible alternative. If it were convenient and accessible for undergraduates, TigerTransit could serve as that transportation option. Thus, Princeton must expand the TigerTransit system where undergrads need it the most: between residential colleges and academic buildings with a central Elm Drive shuttle, as well as between more class locations and athletic practice facilities.
Preston Ferraiuolo is a sophomore from Brooklyn, N.Y., intending to major in the School of Public and International Affairs. He can be reached at prestonf@princeton.edu.The following content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
In the past month, the University introduced a new fleet of 17 electric TigerTransit buses as ridership has increased in the face of recent campus-wide ban on Personal Electric Vehicles (PEVs).
A Daily PrintsAnything investigation has found that these new buses are entirely powered by rats native to the Princeton area.  The Diesel Fleet section of the TigerTransit website writes, “Sustainable rat-powered energy is how we plan to do our part to end the climate crisis.”
“When I first saw the union contract, I thought we were being hired as electrical engineers,” said Angelica Crumbstop, one of the rats currently employed by the University.
According to the job listing on Indeed, the actual job title is “Electric Engine.” The job description reads, “We are seeking warm bodies to serve as full-time electric engines. Applicants should have the ability to create substantial friction by rubbing their body against others. Little to no predisposition to vertigo is a plus.”
A number of rats have expressed confusion and anguish at their job responsibilities. “You do understand that the only reason you have this technology is because they tricked a bunch of highly-trained electrical engineers to get inside a bus engine, right?” asked Harrison Nightingale, Ph.D., a prominent rat within the union. “You call this the American dream?! This is not why my grandparents emigrated to America in the galleys of a white-people ship.”
“While I’m grateful to finally get off unemployment, these conditions are pretty shocking,” said Larry Siu, a veteran rat on campus, as he took a long drag from a miniature Virginia Slim. “We’re being thrown around in there like a Wawa hoagie in a washing machine."
According to Dr. Nightingale, the union plans to go on strike for better conditions and benefits, such as dental insurance and weekly cremations for all those perishing on the job.
Unfortunately, this strike will not be implemented in the foreseeable future, for an unknown union member has reportedly spent the entirety of the strike fund on pay-per-view chinchilla porn.
“You have no idea how good you have it,” said Claudio Mueringa, a disturbingly disfigured mouse, as he quickly scampered out of the basement of the Princeton Neuroscience Institute. “Please tell my family I love them,” he yelled as an indignant graduate student dragged his near-lifeless body by the tail back into the building.
Sophia Varughese ’26 is an associate humor editor. She’d take ‘over’ on “over/under 3 rats Sophia’s made out with”. She can be reached at sv1456@princeton.edu.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.The following content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
It’s February and love is in the air, but unfortunately, as we all know, Princeton students have a tendency to stay holed up in their rooms studying. Luckily, for those who might be craving a chance to dance with romance, one student’s brilliant new app has the solution.
Introducing TigerTease, the only application that alerts you when that zee group baddie’s high school relationship has broken up. To learn more about the app’s features, we spoke with Deepa Insaichu, a senior in the Computer Science Department and member of the Residential College Advising program at Rockefeller College.
“Maybe you went home and found out that the ‘I go to Princeton’ card made you more of a ‘hell-no’ than the town’s hottest new gigolo. Maybe a certain someone went home and found out that their partner just didn’t suit their future in investment banking. Maybe you’ve had eyes on the one with long, luscious locks, fair skin, eyes shining beautifully like the sparkling sea … Either way, this is the app for you,” explained Insaichu.
TigerTease lets users search for potential partners, sorting through zee groups by residential college, gender, sexuality, and current relationship status. Once they find that special someone, users then have several options. If the candidate is currently in a relationship, users have the option to receive notifications if their relationship status changes.
If the candidate is single, users can instead opt to message via Instagram, email, or carrier pigeon. Premium subscribers can even request to have gifts delivered, including bouquets, chocolates, and Frist late meal sushi.
Several new features will also roll out in the coming weeks. As Insaichu explained, “New relationship status options will soon be available. One that I am particularly excited about is the ‘Rough Patch’ status. This will allow users to slide in at just the right time to show their crushes how they could really be treated right. Relationship statuses will be automatically monitored and updated in real-time as information becomes available.”
When asked how this data collection method worked, Insaichu declined to comment. Throughout the interview, their phone kept buzzing with Instagram notifications.
An independent investigation by The Daily PrintsAnything concluded that this feature is driven by Insaichu’s Instagram page, which follows every campus baddie the investigations team could account for.
The Daily PrintsAnything also got an exclusive hands-on demonstration of a new AI feature coming to the app. Users can practice “rizzing up shawties” as the feature description reads by placing themselves in practice conversations with a specially trained chatbot.
In the scenario we were shown, we were tasked with consoling a student who recently broke up with their partner of four years. Throughout the conversation, we were automatically prompted by certain lines at key points, such as “Where my hug at” upon initiating the conversation, and “I would never treat you that way” when listening about their old partner.
Insaichu will distribute the app to fellow RCAs for use in their zee groups, though all students may register for the app on both Apple and Android, with a full release planned this Friday.
Sawyer Dilks is a staff Humor writer and member of the Class of 2027. If there are any students going through a rough breakup and need someone to listen, he would like to remind them that there are resources available at sd5123[at]princeton.edu.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.As students returned to campus after winter break, many in undergraduate housing were met with unwelcome guests: rats and mice. Reports of infestations spread quickly, with students spotting rodents in dorm rooms, hallways, and common rooms.
Rodents have been a documented issue in upperclass housing for years, notably in buildings such as Brown Hall. However, multiple first-year students from both New College West (NCW) and Yeh College told The Daily Princetonian that they have seen rodents in their common rooms since before fall break, and the infestation issue has only gotten worse.
Yeh resident John Wallar ’25 told the ‘Prince’ that he returned to his dorm during Wintersession to find that he had a mouse under his bedside table. “I heard a little scurrying, and I was like, okay, something probably just shifted,” said Wallar. “And then it continued.”
After contacting the Public Safety (PSAFE) non-emergency number, Wallar was offered a bed in the infirmary or the option to stay in a friend’s room. “The next day, someone from Facilities … came and put two mouse traps,” said Wallar. “Since then, I’ve had no other encounters with the small furry critter.”
Another resident of Yeh College, Kai Harting ’28, informed the ‘Prince’ that there have been reports of mice on his floor since December. Once, Harting’s zee group resorted to catching a mouse by themselves in a cup before releasing it outside.
Lizzie Himmelfarb ’28, who is in the same zee group as Harting, said this mouse was one of two mice spotted in her room and one of many on her floor.
Facilities have since been contacted about the problem on Harting and Himmelfarb’s floor in Yeh. Complaints from other students have continued to emerge.
“It took a while for Facilities to bring traps,” said Olivia Perry ’28, who also lives in New College West. Perry continued that Facilities found “four baby mice who lived in my mattress topper over break … it’s basically like seven mice died in our room.”
In an email to the ‘Prince,’ University spokesperson Ahmad Rizvi said, “It is normal to see an uptick in mice activity during colder months as they seek warmth.”
“It is also common to see an increase in such activity after a period of extended vacancy,” added Rizvi.
Undergraduates like Wallar and Danny Gall ’28 reported calling the non-urgent PSAFE line or Facilities to reach out to the University for help in exterminating the pests in their rooms.
Rizvi told the ‘Prince’ that to keep buildings pest-free, “weekly exclusion work is also being performed. This work includes sealing up potential entry points around a building like cracks, gaps and holes to prevent pests from entering” in addition to regular maintenance.
Facilities, in partnership with Western Pest, keeps two technicians on campus Monday through Friday to handle routine work and respond to service calls. Facilities recommends a “clean environment with no food left out. Food should be stored in glass or hard plastic containers and trash should be regularly emptied.” Students can contact the Facilities Service Center at service@princeton.edu or 609-258-8000 if they encounter any pests.
Hallie Graham is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ from Portland, Tenn. She typically covers construction and architecture, facilities and housing, and University dining.
Ben Goldston is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Underneath the Princeton Public Library flows a hidden brook. Before Princeton was settled and developed, Harry’s Brook comprised the entirety of Spring Street, where the public library is now situated. Today, it runs via a concrete culvert beneath the streets of town. If someone were to put their ear to the pavement of the library’s parking lot, they might hear the river burbling away beneath.
But this body of water is not contained underground. It empties out into the Millstone River, which feeds into Lake Carnegie from the other side of Route 1. In total, the river spans a distance of just under 39 miles, incorporating over a dozen tributaries and providing much of central New Jersey’s drinking water.
The river has a rich history as both a gathering place for central New Jersey’s Munsee Lenape communities and early European colonizers, who formed the Delaware and Raritan (D&R) Canal, which runs alongside and at one point crosses over the Millstone, in 1834 as a direct line of transport between the cities of Philadelphia and New York.
In 1902, Howard Russel Butler, Class of 1876, asked steel magnate Andrew Carnegie to provide the funds for a lake where the University’s crew team could have more space to practice. Carnegie agreed, and by 1906, a dam had been placed at the confluence of the Millstone and the Stony Brook to form what we now know as Lake Carnegie. Now, some go through Princeton seeing only the lake, completely unaware of the river’s existence. Others, however, have been highly dedicated to exploring the Millstone’s topography, tributaries, history, and role in the Princeton area.
Anne McClintock
New Jersey’s Munsee Lenape communities have various traditions around the river and their own language to describe the wildlife environment it supports. At the annual Lunaape Language Camp in July 2023, Munsee-speaking language teachers and both Princeton University and Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS) faculty and students gathered on Lunaapahkiing, or traditional Lunaape Lands, around Princeton. The experience included a half-day journey on the Millstone led by community members.
Among the travelers were language keeper and teacher Kristin Jacobs and her son Barry Stonefish of the Eelunaapéewi Lahkeewiit, the Lenape Nation of Moraviantown, Ontario, Canada. They returned to campus in early November for Princeton’s third annual Munsee Language and History Symposium.
Jacobs and Stonefish reflected on their experiences of the river and the importance of water in Lenape culture. “For us, what’s most important is that it always begins with life,” Jacobs explained. “Water is life. It’s what creates life. It’s important to always protect that, so we use water in our ceremonies, and it’s a whole other area of knowledge.”
As a language teacher, words are especially important for Jacobs in describing natural entities. She noted that in the Lunaape language, some words are considered animate while others are inanimate, and many plants fall in the former category. There are also deep connections between many words and nature. Stonefish’s experience on the river was enhanced by learning the Lunaape names for the wildlife he was encountering as they traveled. “I rode with Nate, who works on the seed farm. The whole time, he was talking about plants, naming all the plants we saw, so it was a lot of fun,” said Stonefish.
For Jacobs, the whole experience stood out as meaningful. “The river journey was so beautiful,” she said. “Getting over the fear of being in the kayak was tough, but there were a lot of people who were comfortable paddling, and eventually seeing people get in and go across that first little bit made it feel better.”
To help Princetonians and community members continue engaging with both the river and the Lunaape language, Jacobs suggested putting up signage displaying traditional words for various plants in high-traffic areas along the river. “They could put up signs with traditional words… and where the meaning comes from. I feel like that could be meaningful,” explained Jacobs.
As Jacobs noted, the Millstone is a life-giving force, and many are involved in its protection. Since 2005, Jim Waltman ’86 has served as the Executive Director of the Watershed Institute, an organization based in Pennington, NJ with the mission of keeping the water clean and healthy through a combination of conservation, advocacy, science, and education. Waltman has had a life-long relationship with the river. He grew up in Princeton and later attended Princeton University as a biology major, where he joined the track team and often ran alongside Lake Carnegie and the canal.
Waltman spent his early career as a field biologist in the Galapagos Islands, but after earning his master’s, he went to Washington, DC for a six month internship where he “fell in love with policy and politics in a way I didn’t ever imagine.” He never returned to Yale for his Ph.D., instead working as a lobbyist who pushed for environmental legislation for 15 years. Waltman later moved back to Princeton and was reunited with the river of his childhood.
The Watershed Institute, originally called the Stony Brook-Millstone Watershed Association, was founded in 1949. Now, the institute is working on a number of initiatives, including trying to restore migratory fish by removing unnecessary dams along the Millstone, monitoring the river’s water quality, and working to combat HAB’s, or Harmful Algal Blooms, a type of cyanobacteria which endangers both wildlife and people. Staff and volunteers take samples of the river, involving local communities in the process of scientific testing and screening for toxins.
While Lake Carnegie is not dangerously toxic as of now, it’s “certainly not pristine,” according to Waltman. “Like most bodies of water, right after a storm, a lot gets dumped into the water,” he said. In order to prevent this, the organization works with New Jersey’s municipalities to strengthen water regulation, particularly of polluted stormwater.
Although Waltman characterizes our current times as especially difficult due to the changing climate and distorted water cycles, he is proud of the progress the institute has been able to make over the course of its history. “Looking back, the Watershed has been involved in every major water law and federal doctrine in the state… so it’s quite a legacy,” Waltman explained. Part of this legacy includes encouraging young people to engage with the institute’s programs and inspiring them to become scientists, teachers, and environmental activists. “It’s a great feeling, and a humbling one,” said Waltman.
Every fall, the Watershed Institute hosts one or more groups of Princeton Community Action and Outdoor Action groups. Waltman said that he always begins his sessions with Princeton students by saying, “Welcome to Princeton, and welcome to the Millstone Watershed.”
During one of his walking tours of the “hidden water of Princeton,” Waltman brought a group of students from the basement of the Princeton Public Library parking garage to Lake Carnegie. Waltman emphasized the importance of “getting those students to see when you walk around any place where the springs and rivers are, whether you’re in hills and valleys, or even if it’s an urban environment, even if it’s underground.”
Professor Anne McClintock
One Princeton professor who has a strong sense of the area’s “hidden water” is professor of Astrophysical Sciences Gaspar Bakos, who has declared himself the only Princetonian to commute to work by kayak, and harbors a dream to one day kayak all the way from the Millstone to the ocean.
Bakos has thoroughly explored the Millstone, even assigning his own names on Google Maps to its islands and banks. On one island, which he calls “Cormorant Island,” Bakos has found many beaver dams and has observed the beaver population cycles over the years. Bakos has also visited “Binocular Beach,” where his family went freshwater swimming, “Baby Banana Beach”, where he and his sons enjoyed a feast of bananas, and “Tire Beach,” where one can jump from a tire swing into the water. “Of course, it’s super dangerous, with floating debris everywhere. You never know what’s there,” Bakos warned.
In his travels, Bakos has often found himself entangled in thickets of lily pads. At times, he has been unable to proceed due to fallen trees and branches along the river. When he reaches such obstacles, Bakos simply hops out of the boat and hauls the kayak along with him. “My tactic,” Bakos explained, “is that I usually kayak as far as I can, getting totally exhausted, and then I go back. You can probably do about ten miles until it becomes very narrow.”
When Bakos first started traversing the river, he would bring a machete to clear the path in front of him, but soon had to upgrade to an electric chainsaw. “It felt really weird when I was standing in my kayak with a chainsaw, cutting branches falling all around,” said Bakos. “One day, I actually lost a part of my chainsaw in the water and had to dive in to get it out. And then I realized maybe this was not a good idea.”
As an astrophysicist, Bakos is particularly attuned to the nighttime wildlife of the river. When Bakos went kayaking at night, he noticed that bright lights from the hospital along Route 1 disturb the night environment. “I wish they could change that because this is a prime beaver area, and there are many, many beavers here whose environments are being altered.”
Bakos also hopes that in the future, there will be more opportunities for students to learn about the Millstone. “I think what’s incredible about [the Millstone] is how little it’s known…There’s no appreciation for this long slender patch of ecological landscape,” said Bakos.
Aaron Serianni
Students have also been encouraged to appreciate the river through Princeton’s Outdoor Action (OA) program, which offers occasional kayaking and canoe trips. OA Program Coordinator Candace Brendler moved to Princeton this past May and got the chance to go canoeing on the river with a class in early fall. “It was a really lovely section of the river that is in a really unique location,” said Brendler, noting the diversity of wildlife in such close proximity to the highway
Brendler has been paddling and rafting since she was in college and has always had an appreciation for rivers. “If you’re looking at a topographic view of the Earth, [rivers] are just like the veins… they’re the life-source,” she said. Through OA, Brendler hopes that she can “get more people to have positive experiences with the nearest body of water… to get more people to understand the value of rivers and hopefully better care for them.”
Director of the Program in Visual Arts Jeff Whetstone has created another opportunity for students to engage with the Millstone through a course he co-taught in Spring 2019 entitled “A River Runs Through Us.” Through the course, Whetstone hoped that students would realize “that they live in a hidden, natural and geologically unique environment. It’s perfectly visible, perfectly approachable, but no one knows that there’s a Millstone river running through campus,” said Whetstone, adding, “But all it takes for you to explore it, and it’s so easy to explore.”
Whetstone recounted the story of a day when the class was kayaking on the river and stumbled upon an abandoned beaver dam, which they proceeded to crawl into one by one on their hands and knees. “We just hung out there in the beaver lodge. You could still smell the beavers, and there was beaver hair all over the place,” said Whetstone. He added, “That was transformative for me because I had never done anything like that before.” Whetstone was struck by how comfortable, protective, and communal the lodge felt. “It didn’t feel exotic anymore. It’s almost like crawling into the skin of the beaver to visit their home,” he explained.
In addition to entering beaver dens, Whetstone has seen wild swans and held a freshly laid Canada goose egg on the Millstone. He also reported seeing “15 snakes an hour” in April. Whetstone emphasized the importance of protecting this nature with which we are so closely linked. He explained, “If we protect this crappy suburban wilderness around us, it’s much easier to have the mindset of protecting some more rare and grand wilderness somewhere else,” adding, “To see the grand wildernesses of the planet may make you think that the wilderness you are in is not important. But the nature that you live in is the most important nature at the present moment.”
Whetstone believes that students should recognize that the river has many different histories, including an indigenous cultural history, a period of colonial cultural history, and a modern cultural history. “The river runs through all those histories. So there is a cultural thread as well as a natural thread, and we can use it as a kind of skeleton to develop more comprehensive histories of the land.”
This ties into Whetstone’s idea that landscapes are more than just settings. “I think landscapes should be treated like characters, because they’re always changing, and they’re always influencing us… The Millstone should have a name on Princeton’s campus.”
Many of Whetstone’s students were deeply influenced by the course and maintained relationships with the river after their time as Princeton undergraduates ended. Maria Fleury ’22 took the course in the Spring of her first year and called it the best class she took. She reflected, “It was very impactful for me. It just completely shifted the way I related to Princeton as a place.”
Having grown up in an urban environment, Fleury was not fully comfortable interacting with animals at the start of the course. “Being on the river helped me engage with other creatures and understand their home,” she said.
Now completing a High Meadows Environmental Institute Fellowship at a climate science communications non-profit, Fleury still lives in Princeton and continues to appreciate her relationship with the river and the D&R Canal. “To me, rivers are just so powerful and majestic. I’ve had very emotional experiences and cried looking at the river,” said Fleury.
Amy Amatyah ’21 had a similar experience in the course, recalling how it opened her eyes to parts of Princeton’s campus she had never noticed before. Amatyah was a junior when she took the class and had never visited the towpath before, explaining, “To me, the towpath wasn’t a place I needed to be for school… so I didn’t go. That class was a real awakening to learning to be present in the place where I am.”
Amatyah noted that the specificity of the course’s focus on the Millstone allowed students to talk more broadly about a sense of place. “It was never just about the Millstone or the canal, it was about learning to be alive where you’re standing,” she explained, adding, “There’s a really beautiful New Jersey, and I would say go discover it.”
Raphaela Gold is a staff Features writer at the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the Millstone River runs under the Princeton Public Library. In fact, Harry’s Brook does. Additionally, the piece inaccurately outlined Waltman’s career path. The ’Prince’ regrets this error.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Street Week 2024 concludes with 629 students being offered spots in Bicker clubs. With the Class of 2026, Princeton’s largest undergraduate class in history taking to the street, also came historic numbers. According to a press release sent to The Daily Princetonian from the Interclub Council (ICC), a total of 1,193 students — about 80 percent of the sophomore class — took part in Street Week. This is the largest number of sophomore participants that the ICC has seen in the past decade.
Street Week took place between Jan. 29 and Feb. 6, as hundreds of undergraduates flocked to the eating clubs on Prospect Avenue for multiple nights of one-on-ones, group conversations, and games. Though the Class of 2026 is the largest class the University has ever seen, interest changed unevenly across the street. This year, there was a large increase seen in bickerees at Tiger Inn (TI), a drop in interest at Cannon Dial Elm, and Charter’s selective sign-in process leaving many who ranked it first on the ICC portal out in the cold.
Based on data obtained by ‘Prince,’ a total of 1,207 Princeton students were placed into eating clubs during Street Week 2024, a figure which includes juniors and seniors placed in eating clubs that were not counted in the figure provided by the ICC.
The ‘Prince’ reached out to officer teams at every eating club, along with the ICC. With the exception of the officers of the ICC, none of the officer teams responded by publication time.
629 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs, with 578 were placed into sign-in clubs. There was little change from last year's figure among Bicker clubs, when 633 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs, while the number of those who were placed into sign-in clubs rose from 516 the year prior. Of the 629 students accepted to a Bicker club this year, 607 were sophomores.
66 percent of sophomores who participated in Street Week chose to double bicker, a figure that has risen in recent years. In 2017, when double bicker was instituted for all clubs, the ICC reported that 46 percent of sophomores chose to double bicker.
Students had until Thursday, Feb. 8 at 8 p.m. to rank their club preferences. When decisions were released on Friday, Feb. 9 at 10 a.m., the site crashed, though it was up and running again within the next 30 minutes.
The ICC's computer system failed to place a small number of students in an eating club due to this year's swell in interest. According to Beams, "The computer matching system ensured that 99% of participants were matched with a club. Given 2026's unprecedented class size, requiring bickerees to rank just two sign-in clubs most likely resulted in the discrepancy between 99 and 100%." Beams stated that the ICC will recommend that students rank two additional clubs next year to avoid this outcome.
Tower accepted the most new members among the Bicker clubs, while Terrace welcomed the most among the sign-in clubs. The same situation occurred last year, though Tower’s incoming class size rose while Terrace’s fell.
Tower's incoming class in particular rose greatly. Tower welcomed 165 new members, including 10 juniors and three seniors — its largest incoming class since at least 2001. Tower members shared with the ‘Prince’ that 278 people signed up on the ICC website to bicker Tower compared to 232 last year. While 278 signed up to bicker Tower, only about 240 bickerees were discussed — a situation that also occurred last year, when about 170 bickerees were discussed. Tower had an acceptance rate of 59.35 percent, about the same as the 2023 rate of 60.8 percent.
Higher demand from 2026’s large class and limited spots available resulted in decreasing acceptance rates in most clubs. Tiger Inn, in particular, had a drop in acceptance rate from 29.4 to 25.7 percent. This made TI the most selective Bicker club on the street, narrowly edging out Ivy. This is the first time TI has held this distinction since double bicker was established for all Bicker clubs in 2017.
TI's increase selectivity was due to a surge in interest, with the number of bickerees rising from 296 to 374. TI’s incoming class rose from 87 last year to 96 this year, 90 of whom were sophomores and six of whom were juniors. TI’s acceptance rate was slightly lower for juniors than sophomores at 26 percent, with the club accepting six of 26 juniors — about 23 percent.
For the first time since at least 2001, more students bickered TI than Cap and Gown. Cap and Gown saw 360 bickerees, roughly unchanged from 358 last year, and accepted 100, yielding an acceptance rate of 27.8 percent. All those who bickered Cap and were admitted were members of the Class of 2026, as the club does not allow juniors or seniors to spring Bicker.
Cannon Dial Elm Club had 171 bickerees and accepted 101 new members. Both figures were down from last year, when Cannon had 193 bickerees and admitted 123. This yields an acceptance rate of approximately 59 percent, lower than the 63.7 percent acceptance rate last year. 99 of Cannon’s 101 admits were sophomores.
Ivy Club accepted 78 of its 291 bickerees this year, all of whom are sophomores. This marks a decrease from 87 last year, when Ivy accepted its biggest class ever. Despite this drop, 2024 marks the second-largest incoming class Ivy has seen since 2001. This decreased class size may be an attempt at reinforcing an Ivy practice of accepting a small number of students to foster a closer community. In 2016, former Ivy Bicker Chair Michael Moorin ’16 told the ‘Prince’ that “we believe Ivy’s small membership is core to its identity.”
Cottage Club accepted 89 students, 88 of whom were sophomores. According to individuals with knowledge of the process, about 270 students bickered Cottage, an estimate in line with estimated figures provided to the 'Prince' last year.
The ‘Prince’ also obtained data on how many people were placed into each sign-in club.
Terrace welcomed 143 new members into the club, 140 of whom are sophomores — the largest incoming class of any sign-in club.
Colonial offered spots to 120 members, of whom 115 were sophomores. This represents a surge from 70 people admitted last year. Colonial's uptick in membership may be due to its early sign-in program, in which new sophomore members could gain admission to the club before Street Week even began.
Quadrangle offered spots to 102 members, similar to the 109 it welcomed last year.
Cloister offered spots to 103 members, 102 of whom are sophomores, the largest incoming class the club has seen since 2014. Cloister has faced the possibility of closure given recent low membership numbers and financial difficulties, though a recent fundraising drive raised over $100,000 according to the club’s Graduate Board of Governors.
Cloister’s leadership admitted that many students placed into the club did not rank it first, with President Alexandra Wong ’25 saying in an email to admitted members that “Whether or not Cloister was your first choice, we’re thrilled to have you in 65 Prospect and we can’t wait to get to know all of you.”
Though Cloister admitted a large number of students, its struggles with yield in the past mean that this new influx may not lead to a surge in membership. A ‘Prince’ analysis found that only 18 of the 86 students Cloister admitted in February 2023 were listed as members in November.
Charter welcomed 110 members to the club, in line with the 102 it accepted in 2023. Charter is the only eating club that utilizes a selective sign-in process that awards points to prospective members for demonstrating interest in the club, including attending events such as coffee chats pre-winter break and during Street Week.
Charter has increased in popularity since its adoption of selective sign-in in 2020. Based on the point values and eating club placements of several members who ranked Charter first, the ‘Prince’ corroborated that the cutoff for admission to Charter was approximately 13 points — an increase from last year’s cutoff. Using this estimate, anyone with less than 13 points, or who did not rank Charter first, was not offered membership into the club.
With Charter continuing to increase in popularity, but not increasing its incoming class, conversations are re-emerging whether Charter should become a Bicker club as it decided to do in 2021 — a plan that was eventually dropped. In interviews with the ‘Prince,’ two students who ranked Charter first but did not gain admission to the club said they do not believe Bicker is the solution to rectify Charter’s admission woes, but failed to conceive any alternatives to handling the club’s continued surge in popularity.
“I kind of just put the blame on me for not deciding early enough. I hope they [the eating clubs] take this as a learning experience. So maybe they’ll try to change the system somehow next year to make it less stressful for people,” Dashram Pai ’26, a sophomore who ranked Charter first and said he received 12 points, said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’
Pai is a staff Constructor for the Puzzles section of the ‘Prince.’
Olin Zimmet ’26, a sophomore who ranked Charter first and said he received 12 points, told the ‘Prince,’ “The unfortunate nature of my — and many others’ — circumstances is simply due to the sheer number of students who vied for a spot, not any wrongdoing on the part of Charter or its officers.”
To many members, alumni, and students, Charter has developed a unique identity as a club that rejects evaluative Bicker, making such changes difficult.
“Evidently, this outcome is unfortunate for folks like me who had 12 or 13 points and were not admitted, but I cannot think of another way for Charter to both remain selective and make the system more fair than it already is,” Zimmet added.
Charter was not the only club that left students disappointed at 10 a.m. on Friday.
“I’d say that I felt like I could pretty much waltz in, no problem,” Courtney Harrison ’26, an athlete on the softball team who bickered Cannon, said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ Harrison was not among the 101 new members accepted into Cannon, despite the fact that all of the other sophomores on her team that bickered Cannon gained admission into the club. Cannon members are primarily athletes.
Harrison said that her rejection from the club left her in a state of “denial.”
She learned of the news from her teammates Thursday night so that she wouldn’t be “blindsided” on Friday morning. Harrison’s team assured her that she was not “red carded” during Cannon deliberations, in which a member of the club negatively flags a bickeree, eliminating them from discussion and the possibility of membership.
Despite these frustrations, most sophomores emerged from Street Week satisfied, with the ICC saying that 81 percent of students who participated in Street Week were placed into their first or second choice club.
In the wake of Street Week, some students have begun to explore alternate options for their dining plan next year, such as joining a co-op, going independent, enrolling in the University dining hall plan, or joining another sign-in club, with Pai saying he hopes to sign in to Colonial, while Zimmet plans to go independent.
The end of Princeton’s unique and historic tradition has brought reflection and melancholy to the students who participated.
“Social standing doesn’t speak to how you are as a person and your character,” Harrison added. “What’s important in being at this university and at any university is choosing people that really see you as you generally are.”
Even though there is still much to decide, some students, like Harrison, are just happy to go back to normal life.
“During that week I just felt like I wasn’t putting my best quality forward. So finally [when Street Week was over] I felt like I could exclusively start focusing on academics as well as softball.”
Justus Wilhoit is a senior News writer and assistant Audience editor for the ‘Prince.’
Mary Ma contributed data visualization for this piece.
Note: This piece has been updated since publication to include an additional figure on the number of bickerees.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Street Week 2025 has concluded, with all of the 1,263 students who chose to pursue an eating club given a place according to a press release from the Interclub Council (ICC). 83 percent of the Class of 2027 participated in Street Week, up from 80 percent of the Class of 2026 last year. Tiger Inn (TI) remains the most selective club, Cap and Gown Club has reclaimed the distinction of being the most bickered club, and Tower has seen a near 17 percentage point decrease in acceptance rate from last year, from 59 to 42 percent.
Street Week refers to a week of conversations and social events during which many sophomores and juniors explore the various eating clubs located on Prospect Avenue. This year’s Street Week was held from Feb. 2 to Feb. 7.
In a press release issued to The Daily Princetonian, President of the ICC Vincent Jiang ’25 shared that 119 juniors and 1,144 sophomores were placed into the 11 eating clubs.
Last year, the ICC failed to place a small number of students  — less than one percent — into an eating club due to the demand from the unprecedentedly-large class of 2026. This year, the ICC was able to place all students who took part in Street Week activities, as all registered students were required to rank all five sign-in clubs, instead of just two, which was the practice in years prior.
“The Street as a whole has successfully adapted to the larger size of the Class of 2026 and beyond, reflected in our increased numbers with many clubs reaching physical capacity,” Jiang wrote.
The ‘Prince’ contacted officer teams at every eating club, as well as the ICC. Jiang told the ‘Prince’ that “the eating clubs have discussed and we have decided that we are going to send out one joint ICC press release.”
There are three systems for admittance into the eating clubs. Cloister Inn, Colonial Club, Quadrangle Club, and Terrace Club, all use the “sign-in” system, where students are free to sign up for the clubs, and the students are randomly selected to join a given club based on the space available.
An additional feature of the sign-in option is the group sign-in, which allows groups of sophomores and juniors to sign-in to the same club with their friends. The ICC shared in their press release that they saw “32 students (across 10 groups) participate in the ICC’s group sign-in feature.” This was an increase from only 25 students from five groups last year.
Cannon Dial Elm Club, Cap and Gown, Cottage Club, Ivy Club, Tower, and Tiger Inn all use the “bicker” system, where prospective members engage in conversations and games with current members. Clubs then hold member or Bicker committee discussions that determine which students each club accepts. Each student is able to bicker up to two clubs.
Charter Club operates on a third, unique system of acceptance. It is the only club that uses a selective sign-in process, awarding points to prospective members for demonstrating interest in the club, including by attending events before winter break and during Street Week.
Following criticism for its selective sign-in process during last year’s Street Week, when people who attended 12 out of 14 events were not accepted to the club, then-Charter President Anna Johns ’25 announced in November that there would be changes to make the process more accommodating. Charter would hold 14 point-earning opportunities again in 2025. However, this year, the eating club capped the number of points an individual can receive at nine.
“We hope that what this will do is reduce some pressure, you don’t have to go to all 14 events, because we stop counting at nine,” Johns said at a panel held by the ICC in November.
Charter’s process is non-evaluative, so if more students get nine points and rank Charter first than there is space in the club, membership will be selected via a lottery.
Registration for Street Week lasted from the afternoon of Jan. 26 to Feb. 1. Students had until Thursday, Feb. 6 at 8 p.m. to rank their club preferences, before decisions were released the next day at 10 a.m. The ranking window for the eating clubs opened on Feb. 4 at 8 p.m. and closed on Feb. 6 at 8 p.m. At 10 a.m. on Feb. 7, students received notification of their acceptance to an eating club. Bicker discussions generally start on Tuesday or Wednesday night and can last into the wee hours of Friday morning.
In the press release, Jiang stated that “735 students utilize[d] the ICC’s double-bicker.” Of the total 1,795 bickerees, which included double-bickerees twice, 325 students single-bickered, meaning a total of 1,060 students bickered this year. 203 signed into clubs without bickering.
624 of the 1,060 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs — a five person decrease in accepted Bicker students from last year.
TI was the most selective club, accepting 96 of the 395 bickerees for a 24.3 percent acceptance rate, compared with last year’s 25.7 percent acceptance rate. 90 of these accepted students were sophomores, while the remaining 6 were juniors. TI accepted the same number of students this year as it did last year.
Cannon Dial Elm had the highest acceptance rate of bicker clubs this year, offering admittance to 118 of its 196 bickerees for a 60 percent acceptance rate. This was a 1.1 point increase in acceptance from last year. Cannon admitted 101 members last year.
Tower let in the most members among the Bicker clubs, accepting 143 of the 337 bickerees. This year, Tower saw an increase in bickerees, compared with 278 last year.
While 337 signed up to bicker Tower, only 302 went to Bicker sessions and were thus discussed. Tower had an acceptance rate of 42.4 percent, a decrease of 17 percentage points from last year.
Cap and Gown was the most bickered club with 397 bickerees, reclaiming the title from TI, which was most-bickered last year.. The club accepted an equal number of male and female bickerees, welcoming 100 new members total. The 25 percent acceptance rate is a 2.6 point decrease from last year’s acceptance rate.
Head Audience Editor and Senior News Writer Justus Wilhoit ’26 is a member of the Cap and Gown Club and has recused himself from reporting on the club.
Ivy Club had a 30.4 percent acceptance rate, admitting 79 members out of 260 bickerees, a 3.6 point increase from last year. Last year, the club accepted 78 of its 291 bickerees, all of whom were sophomores.
Ivy has prided itself on accepting a small number of students to foster a close community. In 2016, former Ivy Bicker Chair Michael Moorin ’16 told the ‘Prince’ that “we believe Ivy’s small membership is core to its identity.”
Cottage Club welcomed 88 new members out of its 240 bickerees, a 36.7 percent acceptance rate relative to last year’s 33 percent.
Quadrangle Club accepted the most new members among the sign-in clubs, a distinction held by Terrace last year. Quadrangle Club welcomed 155 new members into the club, 133 of whom are sophomores, compared with 102 new members overall welcomed last year.
Cloister offered spots to 86 members, a decrease from last year when they offered spots to 103 members. Notably, almost 14 percent of Cloister’s new members were also offered spots last year.
Charter welcomed 100 members to the club, in line with the 110 accepted last year.
Terrace welcomed 131 members to the club, in line with 143 new members welcomed last year.
Colonial welcomed 120 members to the club, the same number welcomed to the club last year.
82 percent of students who participated in Street Week were placed into their first or second choice club, an increase from 80 percent last year, according to the ICC. In the wake of Street Week, some students have begun to explore alternate options for their dining plans next year, such as joining a co-op, going independent, re-enrolling in the University dining hall plan, joining a sign-in club, or waiting to bicker again in the fall.
However, even getting a spot in a bicker eating club during Fall Bicker isn’t a guarantee: The process has become more competitive with lower acceptance rates and fewer spots available in recent years.
Students will have until 9 a.m. on Feb. 23 to sign in to the open clubs: Cloister, Colonial, and Quadrangle.
Editor’s Note: The article has been updated to reflect the number of students offered spots in Colonial Club during Street Week 2025.
Justus Wilhoit is a head Audience editor and senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Kenosha, Wis. and typically covers Princeton’s eating clubs and co-ops, identity and student life, and the Trump administration.
Luke Grippo is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including USG, the CPUC, and institutional legacy, but loves to write in any area.
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.This year, 83 percent of sophomores participated in Street Week, and 1,263 students were placed into an eating club. We’ve all heard the arguments for and against bicker and for and against eating clubs as institutions. This year, we asked our writers to share more nuanced reflections on what works and doesn’t work about Street Week 2025 – what should be preserved, and what should be reformed.
By Siyeon Lee, Associate Opinion Editor
Laughter, music, and damn good tacos were my main takeaways from the Brown co-op’s sophomore dinner a few weeks ago. In the warm beige glow of the bustling kitchen, I kept thinking to myself, “Why does nobody talk about how nice this is?” While I was set to bicker in the upcoming week, I saw myself thriving in one of Princeton’s four co-ops, student-run dining communities where members cook, eat, and clean together.
Co-ops are a niche choice at Princeton, but they deserve more appreciation. They offer a tight-knit community, cost nearly 95 percent less than eating club dues, and teach critical life skills — Cooking? Cleaning? Who would’ve thought? It’s natural to gravitate toward the Street when most upperclassmen join eating clubs — I did, too. But while people cite social life and community as their reasons for joining, co-ops offer both at a fraction of the price. Sure, they’re different — you won’t have members-only formals or hundreds of members to constantly interact with, as most co-ops range from 30–50 people. But my friends in co-ops still enjoy the street through guest meals, and many use the money they save on multi-city trips across the globe or even a car.
Though I love my eating club, I plan to reevaluate next fall whether a co-op might be a better option. Whether you’re in an eating club or not, you absolutely should, too.
Associate Opinion Editor Siyeon Lee is a sophomore from Seoul, South Korea intending to major in History. She can be reached at siyeonlee[at]princeton.edu.
By Shane McCauley, Assistant Opinion Editor
This bicker season, Princeton students of all class years got a unique look into eating club life through an Instagram account called The Hungry Tiger. In a series of reels, the account’s creators tried club cuisine, interviewed members and dining staff, and gave a glimpse into each club’s unique traditions.
With uniformly positive food reviews and quick jump-cuts, I wouldn’t call the account’s content independent journalism. But as a first-year with little knowledge of eating club culture, it still helped assuage my anxiety about club life. Clubs should continue offering digital glimpses into club life to familiarize first-years with eating clubs beyond parties and reputations.
Before I arrived at Princeton, I saw eating clubs as intimidating, elitist institutions shrouded in mystery. And as a first-year, attending their parties doesn’t exactly convey what being a member is like. The Hungry Tiger’s content — simple as it is — still offered valuable information about club atmospheres as my sophomore year draws closer.
While students can learn about club cultures by participating in meal exchanges or pre-bicker events, many first-years don’t have close friends in several clubs with whom they can meal swap, and pre-bicker events are generally limited to sophomores.
Unfortunately, the account was unable to film inside Cottage or Ivy, in the latter case due to a strict no-filming policy. But clubs can maintain their alluring reputations without keeping themselves entirely secret. To increase transparency about club life for all students — including first-years — clubs should take every opportunity to expand their digital presence, perhaps beyond simple food reviews.
Shane McCauley is an Assistant Opinion Editor from Boston intending to major in Anthropology. He can be reached at sm8000[at]princeton.edu.
By Christofer Robles, Editorial Board Chair
While I have previously defended Bicker in this paper, this year I am feeling much less sympathetic. I call on The Interclub Council (ICC) to investigate and publicize the Bicker processes of each club. Without transparency about various clubs’ Bicker processes, it’s impossible to know which aspects of bicker are essential to preserving club cultures and which ones are inequitable. Only then can any reasonable debate on the merits of the process be had.
I continue to believe in the spirit of Bicker: “every club on Prospect has an identity — Bicker just makes that identity intentional.” But while I, and others before me, have called for “a strong commitment to a better Bicker,” it is becoming increasingly clear that “better Bicker” is too ill-defined of a goal for a few twenty-somethings to accomplish without a commitment to finding concrete reforms.
Listing grievances with a specific club would be counterproductive — the shortcomings of Bicker are shared between the selective clubs. Talk to any upperclassman in any Bicker club: injury is a feature of the process writ large.
I call on the ICC to hire an independent law firm to investigate problematic Bicker practices, publish their findings, and push Prospect Avenue towards a more progressive Bicker. Bickerees are often ignorant to the inner workings of their prospective clubs — they are owed transparency. Clubs should be beholden to common standards of inclusivity — scandal is not foreign to the Street, and social stigma and club loyalty prevent Bicker from receiving its due open criticism and correction.
Christofer Robles is the Editorial Board Chair for the 149th Board and a member of the illustrious Cap & Gown Club. He can be reached at cdrobles[at]princeton.edu.
By Jorge Reyes, Columnist
This year, Cap & Gown was the most bickered club. As a first-year on financial aid planning on bickering next spring, this does not surprise me.
While club culture, leadership, and other factors certainly contribute to the choices made by bickering students each year, strong financial aid policies can encourage students to consider clubs that are otherwise inaccessible and impact the makeup of clubs’ Bicker classes.
For students seeking to join a club whose dues exceed the University’s financial aid allowance, Cap & Gown is one of the most accessible. Their commitment to ensure students on full financial aid pay no out-of-pocket expenses, as well as the grant provided to sophomores to cover the difference between fees and University aid, does not go unseen. Ivy and Cannon are the other bicker clubs with dues over the University allowance.
Although the rest of the Bicker clubs also have ways to reduce the financial burden for students on aid, Cap & Gown stands out by assuring that all students on financial aid receive a grant to help with fees rather than hold a “case-by-case” process like some of the other clubs.
For future Street Weeks, I encourage the leadership of all clubs to consider the role their financial aid policies play in attracting members. Take it from a current first-year who participated in the Freshman Scholars Institute and is already planning for Street Week: Cap & Gown’s transparent financial aid policies make it an attractive choice for many bickerees.
Jorge Reyes is an Opinion columnist for the ‘Prince.’ You can read his column, “No Tiger Left Behind,” every three weeks on Tuesday here. He can be reached at jr7982[at]princeton.edu.
By Sophia Zuo, Contributing Writer
While Princeton students are no stranger to rainbow-striped Google calendars, or sprinting from one commitment to the next, the compressed duration of Bicker adds unnecessary strain and fatigue to an already stressful situation.
As I witnessed firsthand, double bickerees had to move from a morning of classes to a grueling afternoon of bicker sessions, and chose chugging caffeine over getting a good night of rest in order to do it all.
Students inevitably take bicker extremely seriously — it’s a heavy determinant of future social circles. But its condensed timeline creates a pressure-cooker environment where students are constantly on edge, yet must appear relaxed and carefree in order to make a good impression.
Bicker is comparable to standardized testing: both are one-shot, widely bought-into, and high-stakes. But while the SAT or AP exams may measure intelligence or understanding of an academic topic, bicker serves to measure something as volatile as personality, which, during the bicker process, we lose control over.
It can be argued that a process as stressful as bicker should be as short as possible. However, if the length of bicker means students are performing worse and unable to reflect their best selves, it’s worth reconsidering alternatives.
Clubs could spread their Bicker sessions over longer periods, or the ICC could mandate that clubs host sessions across different days. For those who choose to double Bicker, such changes would make Bicker a much more forgiving process, and allow students to come to sessions unexhausted and as genuine as possible.
Sophia Zuo is a sophomore contributing writer from Hsinchu, Taiwan. She can be reached at sz5856[at]princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.The 2025 eating club admission process ended on February 7th. This year’s Bicker and sign-in was characterized by a record-breaking 83 percent participation rate among the Class of 2027, the second year of Princeton’s class size expansion, leading to sinking acceptance rates at many clubs. Today, we take you inside the notoriously opaque Bicker process and analyze its outcomes.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Each year, Street Week brings exciting opportunities, as hundreds of sophomores navigate the eating club selection process — but with Bicker clubs, on average, rejecting nearly two thirds of applicants, it also brings disappointment for many students.
Tower, in particular, had a drop of 17 percentage points in its acceptance rate — the lowest since at least 2018. No club had a significant increase in acceptance rate. This Street Week, 624 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs, compared to 629 in 2024 and 633 the year before. The Class of 2027, with 1,366 members, is the second expanded class year to participate in Street Week.
With hundreds of students vying for limited spots, some individuals felt daunted by the numbers. Olivia Bell ’27 held the perspective that Bicker felt less about personality and more about connections.
“Cap, I didn’t think I’d get in … I think it’s mainly about who you know, and not as much about your character and if they like you as a person,” said Bell. She ultimately joined Charter.
“I had trouble believing that out of the 400 people bickering Cap, they’ll like me over 300 other people — for a while, I thought to myself, is there even a point bickering?” added Melody Cui ’27. She is now a member of Cap and Gown.
Despite increasing interest in Cap and Gown, its accepted class sizes have remained relatively constant in recent years. While most clubs have increased membership to accommodate growing demand, Cap is the only Bicker club that has not substantially expanded since at least 2021. This lack of change has made an already selective process even more competitive, as more students apply for the same number of spots each year.
While Tower accepted one of its largest Bicker classes since 2000, its acceptance rate also dropped significantly from last year, making entry into the club more competitive than expected. This trend reflects growing interest in Tower.
Though double Bicker was instituted for all clubs in 2017, offering students more flexibility, the uncertainty surrounding admission still impacts how some students rank their club preferences.
“When I was ranking the clubs, I was thinking about what club I would want to go to the most, but also realistically what club would I have a chance of getting into,” Cui explained. But ultimately, she decided to trust her instincts. “At the end of the day, they’ll choose what they want, so I should choose what I want too.”
Some clubs, like Charter and Cap, have started accommodating for the size increase. Charter, for instance, is currently expanding its dining space, while Cap added a new wing to their dining room.
Overall, the number of newly admitted Bickerees hasn’t kept up with Princeton’s growing class size, leaving acceptance rates tighter than ever. For the coming years, students may expect to continue bickering with a mix of excitement, strategy, and uncertainty, hoping in the end to find a place that feels like home.
Chima Oparaji is a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
When I entered Tiger Inn (TI) for Bicker two years ago, it was my second time in the building. I chose to bicker TI because I felt that the club had made strides to be more inclusive and heal their reputation and community. Nevertheless, I was unsure about joining the club and remained fearful of a cold and condescending environment, considering the negative past surrounding the bicker process and the troubling history of the club. Instead, however, I found a friendly and welcoming crowd of students excited to get to know me. I had such a pleasant experience that I joined the eating club and have loved it ever since.
Last year, I was apprehensive to see the other side of the process. After reading several angry criticisms of the eating clubs and hearing rumors of corruption and discrimination, I worried that my love for TI would sour. However, I was once again surprised. There was a deliberate and embodied display of compassion and acceptance of all bickerees that permeated the core of the process.
Though my experience as a bickeree and a member has been nothing but positive, I cannot deny the truth. Systems of power are self-replicating: we selected sophomores who we knew and liked and excluded those who didn’t fit the mold. At times, this exclusion can be nasty, prejudiced, and underhanded. Contrary to the hawkish words of its critics, however, Bicker is not the one to blame. Bicker is an explicit representation of power dynamics that are implicitly present in other social groups. These toxic power dynamics, entangled with a larger American, scholarly, and capitalist culture, are present in Bicker and sign-in clubs alike. These dynamics need to be exposed and restructured with reflexivity and transparency in mind.
Bicker brings to the surface what remains hidden in other settings, like the sign-in clubs. This hidden exclusion manifests in sign-in clubs through members hiding social hierarchies: a friend of mine recently complained that he barely knew anyone in his sign-in club because the cliques made him uncomfortable. The fact that this kind of exclusivity is obscured means that it has the potential to be much worse. Clubs could secretly manipulate the sign-in process without accountability, arbitrarily accepting entire teams or friend groups, while waitlisting others. Shrouded under an assumption of inclusivity, sign-in clubs have the potential to hide corrupt practices.
To be clear, sign-in clubs are probably not currently doing (and would likely never do) something so devious and drastic, and many students join the current sign-in clubs because they are less affiliated with external power systems. However, if Bicker were to be abolished, I doubt that the egalitarian dynamic of sign-in clubs would be adopted by the rest of the street. If all clubs were forced to abandon Bicker, it would be foolish to expect Greek letter organizations, sports teams, clubs, and other groups, to loosen their grip on their social capital. They would simply continue their practices behind an additional layer of secrecy, increasing the barrier to equity.
Currently, every student who signs in to eating clubs is almost guaranteed to get into at least one. If Bicker is abolished, formerly selective clubs may attempt to uphold exclusivity through price hikes and other barriers to entry that would disproportionately affect marginalized identities. In clubs where systems of exclusivity are the norm, exclusivity would perpetuate itself whether its execution is public or private. In addition, large intersecting institutions will continue to exercise and reproduce their power whether Bicker clubs exist or not. Removing Bicker is not the answer to elitism and exclusivity. It is a symptom of a real problem, but ending Bicker would only obscure that symptom and make the disease untreatable. In fact, the benefit of a system like Bicker is that it can be improved and edited.
A candid, transparent Bicker would allow for more regulation and could create a culture of accountability. To do so, it should be mandatory for clubs to publicize demographic data of their bickerees and accepted members. This would encourage clubs to seek out diverse crowds and decrease phenotypical biases.
Further, the score manipulation known as “dirty bickering”  — inflating or tanking a bickeree’s score due to factors outside of their performance at Bicker — needs to be either actively policed or embraced as a feature. Policing dirty bickering could involve introducing and enforcing double-blind and random segments of Bicker and instituting punishments for engaging in foul play.
On the other hand, “embracing” dirty bickering could look like allowing official bids from affiliated organizations or normalizing sophomore scores based on how many members they know. This process is what already occurs behind the scenes. Publicizing and standardizing this process would at least inform all those involved and be the basis for some progress. Many of the grievances about Bicker come from the fact that it falsely presents itself as a meritocratic process. At the very least, sophomores should be properly informed by the eating clubs if their acceptance is not only about how cool they are but also about who they know. We must either eliminate or legitimize this aspect to “clean up” Bicker and set sophomores up for success.
All members should also be involved in Bicker discussions. What I loved the most about TI discussions is that we heard everyone’s voice, and nearly every bickeree had representation and consideration. On the other end of the spectrum is a conclave-style selection process where a small council conspires behind closed doors to select new members. Bicker should avoid this technique and instead adopt a more open and honest process with an idea of equal opportunity and cooperation.
Another issue with Bicker is that the power differential between members and bickerees is steep, which adds unnecessary tension and decreases accountability. To narrow this gap, there ought to be a reflexive scoring system, where bickerees score members in the same way members score bickerees. This new rating would affect the member during discussions, where their judgments would be weighted according to their score. This would discourage intimidation tactics and disrespectful practices. Trends in these scores could assist in informing disciplinary actions and address club-wide shortcomings.
Another difficulty of Bicker is that it is a high-octane social stressor packed into the first few days of school in the spring semester. Bicker should be a long, low-frequency process that starts in the fall with events that contribute tangibly to Bicker results. Then, there could be many more lower stake and lower intensity events in which more sophomores could participate. This way, sophomores who are traveling, sick, or just having a bad day aren’t being unjustly excluded. Currently, many pre-Bicker events have no direct impact on Bicker scores, meaning that they only impact dirty bickering. These events need to be a part of the selection process in a regulated way. In addition, decreasing the stress around the event and letting the sophomores get to know the club more would alleviate some of the pain of the process.
Bicker is a unique opportunity to bring power dynamics and corruption into the limelight. It has the potential to be a regulatory tool if used in the right manner. I am not claiming that Bicker is the only option for the future of Princeton’s social scene. However, it would be unwise to remove it hastily. Abolishing Bicker would only obscure misdeeds and slow progress toward inclusivity and egalitarianism. We can create a Bicker with which we are all comfortable by restructuring with transparency in mind. Implementing a reflexive scoring system and a more prolonged, low-pressure process can mitigate the power differential and anxiety associated with Bicker. The time has come for Bicker to evolve, and the appropriate adjustments have the potential to transform it into a positive force in Princeton’s social milieu.
David Smith is a senior, a member of Tiger Inn, and the co-chair of the club’s DEI committee. He is a former staff Audience creator for the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached at dcs4@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.2024 Fall Street Week concluded with 203 students in the Classes of 2025 and 2026 being offered spots in eating clubs. 46 students were offered spots in four of the six Bicker Clubs — neither Tiger Inn nor Cottage Club held Street Week events. Fall Street Week took place between Sept. 3 and Sept. 10, as undergraduates flocked to the eating clubs on Prospect Avenue for multiple nights of one-on-ones, group conversations, and games.
Two of the five sign-in clubs, Terrace Club and Charter Club, also did not hold Fall Street Week events. Three did participate in Fall Street Week: Quadrangle Club, Colonial Club, and Cloister Inn. Each hosted a variety of events for juniors and seniors each afternoon, ranging from karaoke nights to ice cream socials.
With 80 percent of the Class of 2026 — Princeton’s largest undergraduate class in history — taking part in Street Week last spring, the effects are still felt months later. A press release from the Interclub Council (ICC) shared with The Daily Princetonian revealed that 36 seniors (2.68 percent of the Class of 2025) and 167 juniors (11.13 percent of the Class of 2026) participated in Fall 2024 Street Week.
The ICC wrote that “the Street as a whole is continuing to adapt to the larger size of the Class of 2026 and beyond and that is reflected in our increasing numbers with many clubs reaching physical capacity.”
In a sponsored content article created by the Graduate Interclub Council (GICC) and published in the ‘Prince’ back in May, GICC Chairman Hap Cooper ’82 warned students of the limited spots remaining and encouraged those who were not yet placed to not remain committed to a particular eating club following the conclusion of 2024 Spring Street Week.
“We [GICC] wanted to communicate now that if fall bicker is held at all during the 2024–25 school year, spaces will be EXTREMELY limited and a majority of selective clubs will not participate. Their physical capacity limitations won’t allow it,” he wrote at the time.
Cooper encouraged individuals to join clubs that have room, and stated there will be more opportunities in the future for clubs to collaborate.
“The GICC is committed to ensuring ALL eleven clubs are viable and robust … indefinitely. We are also materially stepping up our percentage of joint parties and activities — starting immediately. So no matter what club you join, you will be mixing with virtually everyone on the Street,” Cooper added.
Students had until Thursday, Sept. 12 at 8 p.m. to rank their club preferences, and decisions were released on Friday, Sept. 13 at 10 a.m. 44 percent of seniors were placed into their first-choice club, but just 20 percent of juniors were placed into their first-choice club.
The ICC’s computer system was able to place 100 percent of students into an eating club. Earlier this year, the computer system failed to place a small number of students in an eating club due to Class of 2026’s unprecedented class size.
Tower accepted the most new members among the Bicker clubs this fall. Tower accepted half of 44 bickerees, welcoming 22 new members, including 9 seniors and 13 juniors. Tower’s new members add to the 165 bickerees previously accepted in the spring, marking Tower’s largest incoming class since 2001.
Cap and Gown was the most bickered eating club, with 90 bickerees discussed and accepting four seniors and eight juniors, 13 percent of their bickerees.
Assistant Audience editor and senior News writer Justus Wilhoit ’26 is a member of the Cap and Gown Club and has recused himself from reporting on the club.
Cannon Dial Elm Club had 26 bickerees and only accepted six new members, yielding a 23.1 percent acceptance rate. The ‘Prince’ was unable to attain class year information.
Ivy Club accepted 6 of its 35 bickerees this fall. Fall acceptance rate was at 17.1 percent, whereas spring was 26.8 percent.
Higher demand from the Class of 2026’s large size combined with limited available spots resulted in decreasing acceptance rates for most clubs. Tower’s fall bicker had an acceptance rate of 50 percent, lower than its 59.35 percent acceptance rate in the spring. Cap and Gown fall bicker had an acceptance rate of 13.3 percent, lower than its acceptance rate of 27.8 percent in the spring.
As Princeton continues to expand its class sizes, it is unclear whether eating clubs will adjust to accommodate more members, or if membership will simply become more competitive.
Justus Wilhoit is a senior News writer and an assistant Audience editor for the ‘Prince.’
Justin Tam is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ from Edison, New Jersey.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Here at Princeton, our eating clubs have big secrets. Buried deep in the records of the eating clubs are their demographics — which these clubs have avoided releasing. Other writers have argued that the eating clubs are elitist — with the most egregious example, Ivy, using socioeconomic markers such as one’s high school or parentage to make decisions, according to bicker cards leaked in 2017.
But without comprehensive data, it’s been difficult to hold these clubs accountable — it’s hard to challenge inequities without statistics. At the same time, a lack of information limits students’ freedom to make informed choices about which eating club to join. To solve these problems, eating clubs should report their demographics, alongside written descriptions about patterns in these demographics.
Not a single club reports their demographic data. However, in 2018, the University announced that eating club presidents have access to this data. I suspect that a major reason for this is the fact that, well, eating clubs are not diverse — the ‘Prince’ 2024 Senior Survey shows concerning estimates.
This is worse for some clubs than others: from crosstabs data, about 75 percent of Tiger Inn identifies as only white (compared to half of respondents in general). However, a lack of racial representation is a problem for eating clubs in general — while around 80 percent of white students are in eating clubs, a mere 57.5 percent of Black students are.
The economic data is disastrous as well, according to our numbers. Households with annual incomes over 500 thousand dollars are in the top 2 percent of the American population. For seniors who weren’t in a club, around 5 percent are from these households. For seniors in general, this number was 12 percent. For seniors in Ivy Club, this was a whopping 39 percent.
These are estimates, of course. The Senior Survey samples consist of about a third of each clubs’ graduating class. In addition, there may be some selection bias. But if an eating club disagrees with this data, it should feel free to publish its own demographic information.
Alongside statistics, clubs such as TI and Ivy should publish written statements to explain why their demographics are so different from the University average. This process of self-evaluation is essential in keeping these clubs accountable. The awkwardness of defending certain statistics could convince clubs to admit in a more equitable manner.
In selecting an eating club, students have a legitimate interest in joining a diverse group. After all, people want to work in diverse workplaces and live in a diverse nation. More information cannot hurt — it would allow people to make the most educated choices possible. Most Princetonians wish this information was available — in 2016, 69 percent of undergraduates voted in favor of a USG referendum to release demographics.
But the Interclub Council (ICC), consisting of the eating club presidents, refused, claiming at the time that demographics are private, personal information. This makes no sense. There are around 200 students in each club — it is impossible to make conclusions about individual members from demographic information.
It’s been almost a decade since then, and this referendum has died. It is time to revive this proposal — this time, from the bottom up. As students, we have much more bargaining power than we often realize.
There is an impressive record of successful, student-led movements to influence reforms on the Street. At the start of the 1900s, a substantial portion of students who sought to join an eating club were not given a spot at a single club. Due to the elitist nature of bicker, this impacted ethnic and religious minorities the most.
In response, students organized. In 1949, around 80 percent of Princeton sophomores signed a petition to not bicker unless all students got a bid — and they were successful.
In the fall of 2025, we can start a similar petition to reject clubs that are not transparent about their demographics. Of course, it would be rather difficult to gather 80% of the sophomores — but even a smaller protest could swing some clubs towards releasing their information. In particular, clubs with diverse demographics, such as Quad, could have a lot to gain from implementing such a change.
Change can happen from within, too. Members of an eating club, who feel compelled to make their clubs more diverse, should push their clubs to publish demographic information. At the least, eating clubs should hold internal referenda about whether or not to publish demographic data —  I suspect some of the more progressive clubs would support such a proposal.
When our institutions, whether the USG or the ICC, fail to look out for us, we have the chance to make changes for our own sake. That is the nature of the democratic process — empowering the people. The Street is the center of Princeton's social life, and as a result, we all have a stake in this matter. The eating clubs should say who sits at the table.Raf Basas (he/him/his) is a first-year Opinion columnist from Elk Grove, Calif. intending to major in English, Politics, or SPIA. He can be reached at rb4078[at]princeton.edu or @raf.basas on Instagram. His column, “Out of the Ivory Tower,” runs every two weeks on Tuesday. All of his columns can be read here.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.1,193 sophomores,  80 percent of the Class of 2026,  participated in this year’s Street Week, with 66 percent double-bickering. As in years past, Bicker and its merits were a source of contention among the student body. We asked our columnists to reflect on Street Week 2024 and Bicker, more generally.
For the next round of Bicker, ditch the ICC mechanism
By Christopher Lidard, Technology Columnist
Algorithms don’t care about you — through the most recent iteration of Bicker, countless members of the Class of 2026 have felt the implications of that fact. With the most recent troubles with the ICC website’s automation of the eating club invitation system, what was originally invented to simplify the convoluted process of club admission and bickeree preferences has unnecessarily gamified the Bicker process and left bickering only as a backup to selective sign-in.
Rather than a human-centered process that can create leeway for special circumstances or catch errors, the ICC Bicker system puts club placement in the hands of error-prone and unaccountable spreadsheet acrobatics. With unpredicted design flaws, such as the inability to handle the Friday morning traffic surge or arbitrarily requiring only two sign-in clubs to be ranked, the automated process brings much more harm than good and needs to be thoroughly reevaluated, if not overthrown.
Prospect Avenue and members of the ICC should reevaluate its usage of such an opaque and fallible program. Moving towards a manual club admission system, where invitations are not algorithmically arbitrated, would be one of the first steps to redeeming the Bicker process from its inaccuracies.
Christopher Lidard is a Technology Columnist, a junior majoring in Computer Science with a policy emphasis, and a member of Terrace Club. He can be reached at clidard@princeton.edu.
Having an “in” doesn’t always make bicker easier
By Sarah Park, Contributing Columnist
Bicker, as a selective process, is inherently and inevitably biased. For some, however, that comes as a relief. Many students spend their time in the same clubs, on the same sports teams, or part of Greek life leading up to the time they bicker. Surrounded by similar people, potentially part of the same few eating clubs, underclass students naturally want to end up in the same eating club as their peers.
However, when expectations fall short of reality, the emotional stress of Bicker can be all the more taxing for students who are a member of these groups. The idea of being hosed when getting into a club felt like a given can feel like rejection from the people closest to you, even when others say otherwise. The perceived social isolation of not being at the same level or as well-liked as peers can be worse for students who were accustomed to a tightly-knit, well-connected community in their college experience thus far.
But ultimately, what Courtney Harrison ’26 says remains true: “Social standing doesn’t speak to how you are as a person and your character … What’s important in being at this university and at any university is choosing people that really see you as you generally are.”
Sarah Park is a first-year intending to pursue a major in Comparative Literature. She is from Manila, Philippines, and can be reached at sarahpark@princeton.edu.
With a growing student body, Bicker makes more and more sense.
By Christofer Robles, Community Opinion Editor
Princeton sophomores want to bicker, that much is clear. But littered in this paper, you will find opinions that call for abolishing and ending Bicker, suggesting their cultures are merely “defined by who they exclude.” Such indictments are not wholly unfounded: Bicker has been used by some as a vehicle for classism and antisemitism. But are a majority of today’s sophomores who participate in Street Week just morally bankrupt? Of course not.
The Class of 2026 was the first class admitted under the University’s plan of a four-year expansion of undergraduate enrollment. And as evidenced by their interest in eating clubs, many of these Princeton students want to join a culled community of peers, whether or not that is a Bicker or a sign-in club. This growing student body interested in eating clubs necessitates a strong commitment to a better Bicker that is defined by who it includes.
Every club on Prospect has an identity — Bicker just makes that identity intentional. With so many more students on Princeton’s campus, it is ever more important that clubs have the agency to choose who defines theirs. Rather than relying on games weaponizing free-time — like that of Charter’s selective sign-in — or filling up spots with students who may form internal cliques, anyway, Bicker allows its members to meet, converse, and engage with interested bickerees. Ultimately, Bicker allows for informed decisions and rejections that protect the well-being of the club’s members. So, while Bicker may have a troubled past and sign-in clubs are here to stay, its detractors cannot discount Bicker’s informed narrowing down of an ever-growing pool of interested sophomores.
Christofer Robles is the Community Opinion editor and is a member of the illustrious Cap & Gown Club. He can be reached at cdrobles@princeton.edu or cdjrobles on X.
It’s time to bicker—but maybe not for 18 hours
By Siyeon Lee, Assistant Opinion Editor
What can a Princeton student accomplish in 18 hours of their life? Conduct a striking experiment on the unexplored areas of quantum physics or write a deeply introspective paper on 19th century philosophy, perhaps? How about spending every second of it on the streets of Prospect Avenue, all for the slim chance of bickering into one of Princeton’s 11 eating clubs?
Apart from the plethora of issues Princeton’s Bicker system carries — from the elitist gamification of social life to allegations of classist elitism — we need to reflect on the suffocating amount of time a prospective member must invest into showing interest for a club. The most recent iteration of Bicker at Ivy, for example, where each prospective member must interview with 10 of its members, involved over six three-hour time slots spanning through the week. This obviously doesn’t mean that every prospective member attended all six of Ivy’s possible Bicker sessions, but considering the abundance of other Street Week events of similar lengths, 10 conversations at one club can be more than burdensome.
When one of the most pressing concerns that pervade Princeton’s campus is the stress and rigor that debilitates its students’ mental health, the last thing that should take up a crippling portion of their weekday is a Bicker activity. This is not to say that those said activities are unimportant — but rather, that they need to be structured with more caution, efficiency, and intention throughout a longer span of time.
With better management of their time-consuming Bicker process, eating clubs have the potential to build meaningful, reparative, and tight-knit communities all bound by a shared camaraderie. Let’s not make it more taxing of an activity than it needs to be.
Siyeon Lee is a first-year from Seoul, South Korea intending to major in History. She is an assistant Opinion editor at the ‘Prince’ and can be reached at siyeonlee@princeton.edu, or @siyeonish on Instagram.
Cloister remains unsinkable… for now
By Wynne Conger, Associate Opinion Editor
At long last, the much-awaited confirmation has arrived: Cloister’s doors will remain open due to a successful Bicker season, advertising streak, and a remarkably lucrative fundraising campaign. However, members should not ease up just yet: in order to ensure the continued survival of Prospect Avenue’s smallest eating club, Cloister must continue to pursue rigorous efforts to rebrand the club as a desirable location for new members in the long run.
Luckily, the concerns of Cloister’s upperclass students were assuaged. The effective recruitment of 103 new members has been a relief for many: members accredit this success both in part to “unprecedented show of [financial] support” and a strong advertising push. The club reportedly exerted great efforts to promote Cloister’s reputation as a “wholesome friend group,” while simultaneously disassociating from its historical reputation of being “an old boys club … for ‘floaters and boaters.’”
However, Cloister isn’t out of the woods just yet. Not only is the club no stranger to risks of dissolution, but many of the newly recruited members did not rank Cloister as their top choice. Although many of the current members remain unperturbed by the state of the club, the threat of going underwater remains present. In order to maintain membership levels, sustain the legacy of the club, and alleviate the concerns of underclass students, Cloister must persist in rebranding its current image and reviving the club as a sought-after Street Week stop.
Wynne Conger is a first-year and prospective SPIA major from Bryn Mawr, Pa. She is an associate Opinion editor and can be reached by email at wc2918@princeton.edu
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Street Week 2025 kicked off on Sunday, Jan. 26 with clubs beginning to host events for prospective members. Building on the increased sophomore participation seen last year among the Class of 2026, the Class of 2027 is expected to continue this upward trend in participation in Street Week activities.
Higher participation has expanded Street Week festivities, but club spots remain limited, lowering acceptance rates.
During Street Week, which usually occurs in late January and early February, eating clubs hold events to recruit new members. Cannon Dial Elm, Cap and Gown, Cottage, Ivy, Tiger Inn (TI), and Tower Clubs conduct a selective membership process called “bicker,” whereas Charter, Cloister Inn, Colonial, Quadrangle, and Terrace Clubs allow students to sign in and join based on various lottery systems.
During bicker, which takes place over three days, sophomores, juniors, and seniors meet current members in various clubs through a series of formal and informal conversations. This is followed by member or committee discussions that determine which students each club accepts.
“We’re expecting similar numbers to last year,” Vincent Jiang '25, President of the Interclub Council (ICC), said in an interview with The Daily Princetonian this past November.
Historic firsts occurred last Street Week:
Tower accepted 165 bickerees in 2024, marking its largest class since at least 2001.
TI had the lowest acceptance rate of all 11 clubs, making it the most selective bicker club on the street, narrowly edging out Ivy. This is the first time TI has held this distinction since double bicker was established for all Bicker clubs in 2017. Double bicker allows students to bicker two different eating clubs in one cycle.
For the first time since at least 2001, more students bickered TI than Cap and Gown.
Nearly 80 percent of the Class of 2026 took part in Street Week last year, the largest number of sophomore participants the ICC has seen in the past decade. Higher participation has resulted in both sign-in and bicker clubs offering more opportunities for students to get to know current members and insight into the culture of each club during Street Week. There are 46 Street Week events this semester.
&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;img src="https://public.flourish.studio/visualisation/21352401/thumbnail" width="100%" alt="chart visualization" /&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;Changes during Street Week 2025
These decreasing acceptance rates have prompted the ICC, composed of the eleven undergraduate eating club presidents, to assess how to make Street Week more accommodating for more prospective members.
Charter Club has undergone notable changes to their selective sign-in process.
Charter is the only eating club that utilizes a selective sign-in process, in which points are awarded to prospective members when they demonstrate interest in the club by attending events.
During the inaugural sophomore eating club panel held by the ICC, former Charter Club President Anna Johns ’25 announced that while Charter will hold 14 point-earning opportunities as they have done historically, for the first time, the eating club will cap the number of points an individual can receive at nine.
“We hope that what this will do is reduce some pressure, you don’t have to go to all 14 events, because we stop counting at nine,” Johns said.
Charter’s process is non-evaluative, so if more students get nine points and rank Charter first than there is space for in the club, membership will be selected via a lottery.
The change comes after Charter’s process was criticized last year by students who were left disappointed after ranking Charter as their first-choice club and attending at least 12 of 14 point opportunities, only to be denied membership.
The ICC is also hoping to ensure everyone is matched into an eating club, a goal initially proposed by the former ICC and Charter Club President Mia Beams ’24. Last year, the ICC’s computer system did not place a small number of students into a club.
“We are looking to require every potential member to rank all the sign-in clubs to make sure that we get 100 percent placements,” Jiang said. In previous years, students only had to rank two sign-ins in addition to any clubs they may have bickered.
The Group Sign-In feature, which allows a group of friends to sign into a club together, also serves as an option for bickerees.
This option is not frequently utilized. In a statement to the ‘Prince’, the ICC reported that during Street Week 2024, a total of five groups were created, with 25 students opting to sign in as part of a group.
Registration for Spring Street Week 2025 opened on Sunday, Jan. 26 at noon. Selective Club choices must be made by Saturday, Feb. 1 at noon.
Bicker will be held from Sunday, Feb. 2 through Tuesday, Feb. 4.
Students can rank their club preferences starting on Tuesday, Feb. 4 at 8 p.m. and no later than Thursday, Feb. 6 at 8 p.m. Club decisions will be available on Friday, Feb. 7 at 10 a.m.
Justus Wilhoit is an associate Audience editor and senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Across Lake Carnegie, a new eatery called Meadows Cafe recently opened inside the new graduate housing complex, Meadows Apartments. Open daily from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., the cafe offers a wide range of drinks, snacks, sandwiches, and sweets. As a University-run store, it accepts Dining Points as a form of payment. But is it worth the trek beyond Carnegie Lake, via foot or a new TigerTransit stop?
To find out, I visited on a bright and sunny Tuesday afternoon. From my class in Aaron Burr Hall all the way at the other end of Washington Street, it was about a 20-minute walk down to the water and another 10-minute walk across the bridge and into the building complex. If someone wanted to talk a little less during the trek and timed it right, the bus would be much faster, as would a bike — although the bike ride home would be all uphill. Without much signage or architectural distinction, I found it difficult to locate the cafe, but I eventually came across it.
Once inside, I surveyed the food. With an airy, modern interior and a display case of sample sandwiches and pastries, the cafe felt akin to a Starbucks. Although the online menu only displayed a few items, there was actually a wide array of options. Not only was there a stand of chips and other savory snacks, among other pre-packaged items, but there was also a freezer with Häagen-Dazs ice cream and an assortment of frozen meals.
For drinks, Meadows Cafe has any kind of coffee, latte, or espresso you would see at any other coffee shop, all sourced from illy Coffee At Earth’s End, a coffee and cigar shop on Spring Street and a block off of Nassau Street. In addition to these traditional choices, they offer four specialty drinks: peaches and cream tempesta (a milky coffee drink with peach syrup), berry chia smoothie, orange aria cold brew, and almond rose caffe latte.
I decided to try an iced version of the almond rose latte, which is also offered at illy. The drink contains espresso mixed with milk and pumps of rose and almond syrup. The rose flavor balanced out the notes of almond very well, ensuring the latte wasn’t overly nutty, and the strong, bitter espresso came through in the aftertaste. Its complex flavor profile made it unlike other lattes I’ve had before, and I would definitely try it again.
In terms of hot food and pastries, the options were just as extensive as the drinks. They offer breakfast pastries like bagels, sandwiches, scones, danishes, muffins, and croissants, as well as desserts like fruit tart and cookies. For lunch, they offer cold sandwiches, paninis, and salads — all of which are about $10 or less. I chose the double-chocolate muffin, which wasn’t as big as the mega-muffins you can find in the Choi Dining Hall, but it was still a hefty size nonetheless. The muffin was rich, moist, and dense, with a light, springy crumb. Paired with the latte, I felt as though I was having the most decadent afternoon snack on campus.
The cafe has many seats both inside and outside. Tall, floor-to-ceiling windows create a feeling of openness. It’s located directly across from a Meadows Apartments community center, where residents of the complex can gather. Outside, I saw people of all ages sitting in groups of two or three, chatting over coffees or tirelessly typing side-by-side.
Compared to other cafes on campus, like the Tiger Tea Room in Firestone Library or the Chancellor Green Cafe in East Pyne Hall, Meadows Cafe seemed to have a wider variety of high-quality foods that feel unique to this location. Although not necessarily better than somewhere you could go on Nassau Street, if you find yourself down near Carnegie Lake or willing to walk a bit further, try going to Princeton University’s newest coffee shop, Meadows Cafe.
Lulu Pettit is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for The Prospect from the suburbs of Philadelphia, Pa.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Access to the Towpath and the other side of Carnegie Lake may be a bridge too far for students this fall as the bridge closest to campus closes due to construction.
The New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT) will replace the span of Washington Road Bridge that crosses the D&R Canal this fall, according to an advisory issued on July 20. The portion of the bridge over Lake Carnegie will be unaffected. After a year marked by disruptions and detours due to major construction projects on and off campus, the bridge replacement signals more to come in the fall.
The “emergency” repair will entail a prolonged closure on Washington Road — a notoriously busy roadway connecting north and southbound traffic through campus. The project has already faced preliminary delays, with the start date pushed from July 21 to July 26. The road is now blocked off between Faculty Road and Tiger Lane, and will not be reopened until the project’s expected completion in October.
“It will affect some commutes,” wrote University media relations specialist Ahmad Rizvi in a statement sent to The Daily Princetonian. “But most staff traveling to campus from Route One access campus via the Alexander Road exit, not the Washington Road exit. Commuters are advised to access campus via Alexander Road or Harrison Road.”
According to Assistant Director of Athletics/Communications Chas Dorman, the construction will have no impact on Princeton rowing teams’ ability to train and compete on Lake Carnegie.
However, access to facilities used by the cross country and rowing teams will be affected, as they are located off Washington Road. The facilities will remain open and Dorman told the ‘Prince’ that Princeton athletics is working with Transportation and Parking Services to “provide the most up-to-date information to fans and visitors attending athletics events this fall.”
“We do encourage our fans to allow for extra time when arriving to events in the fall while the construction project continues,” he wrote.
The bridge was originally built in 1905 when the Millstone River was dammed to create Lake Carnegie. It now spans the river, connecting campus to the D&R Canal State Park and Towpath, which are used by students and community members for training and recreation.
A campus message from July 20 specified that access to the park and towpath will be maintained, but may be “limited at certain times as construction proceeds.”
According to Rizvi, the towpath will not be accessible via Washington Road but will be reachable from Alexander or Harrison Streets.
When asked how construction updates and related closures would be communicated to the University community, Rizvi noted that the Washington Bridge Closure is “not related to construction on campus” and directed the ‘Prince’ to the 511NJ website.
Tess Weinreich is an associate News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: the article has been updated to clarify that the bridge spanning Lake Carnegie will be unaffected by construction. It has also been updated with information about ways to access the towpath.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Sophomore Matteo Torres vividly remembers visiting Princeton as a middle schooler, though it wasn’t Nassau Hall or Blair Arch that caught his attention.
“We drove past the lake with the [crew] team practicing on it,” Torres said. “I said to my family that when I go to Princeton, I wanted to row.”
Torres joined the lightweight crew team by walking on rather than going through the traditional recruiting process. Despite finding a home in the boathouse months after his teammates, a large part of Torres’s Princeton life revolves around Lake Carnegie.
“This is my third year on the team, and I feel like I’ve been completely integrated into the team,” Torres said. “My teammates are some of my closest friends, and I can’t imagine my Princeton experience without them.”
Torres is a former News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
His path mirrors that of many Princeton student athletes who have taken up varsity sports after their first-year orientation. While these athletes may not be at the caliber of their recruited peers, they fill a crucial niche in the locker room — adding depth to the rosters of Princeton’s 38 varsity sports teams.
Around 18 percent of Princeton students play a Varsity sport, which is substantially more than peer institutions like Harvard at 11 percent, Stanford at 12 percent, and Brown at 13 percent. However, this figure includes walk-ons like those that are profiled here, and many of the other 80 percent or so of students have backgrounds playing sports. According to the 2027 Daily Princetonian Frosh Survey, 52.5 percent of incoming first-years took part in varsity athletics in high school.
No matter the sport, having competed at a high level in high school is a requirement to walk on. For example, the Princeton men’s swim and dive recruited vs. walk-on consideration is just 0.4 seconds apart in the 50 freestyle, roughly the same as the range across the Olympic finals this year.
Though Torres found his calling in the swimming pool in high school, he took to the water in a different way after arriving at Old Nassau.
“I was a swimmer in high school, so when I got to Princeton and was reintroduced to the idea of rowing, I had the athletic background to join.”
Much like Torres, junior goalkeeper for men’s soccer Sully Atkin knew he wanted to play at the Division I level from a young age. Atkin grew up playing for the Alexandria Soccer Association — one of the top programs in Virginia — and was in goal for a regional champion high school.
“In high school, I knew I wanted to play college soccer, but I also knew I really wanted to go to a really good academic school. So, I basically dual-tracked it,” Atkin told the ‘Prince.’ “[College soccer] seemed like something I might be able to do based on … the teams I was playing on.”
“[Princeton] said that they didn’t see me as part of the recruiting class, but they do have a walk-on process,” Atkin continued. “So, if I get into the school on my own, just send them an email, and then we can talk about a potential walk-on process.”
However, there’s wanting to play a college sport, and there’s the reality of making a college team. Princeton’s 38 varsity sports all compete at the Division I level and have racked up the most Ivy League championships of all schools in the storied conference over the last two decades. Due to such a high level of expectation for each sport and the lack of many openings, getting in is difficult.
“After I got in and committed to Princeton in April, I sent the coaches an email reintroducing myself and letting them know I got in, and [that] I’m still definitely interested in a potential walk-on process. And then they invited me to preseason,” Atkin said. “It was unclear when I first came whether or not I was on trial, or what the deal was.”
Now three years later, Atkin is a crucial part of the team.
“They contribute with their play on the field and with their character on and off the field,” Head Coach of Men’s Soccer James Barlow wrote to The Daily Princetonian in reference to walk-ons. “They have a voice, their opinions and thoughts are heard and respected, and they help make our culture better both on and off the field.  Some of our walk-ons have become very important team leaders.”
Princeton soccer has been at the core of Atkin’s Princeton experience ever since. “I've met some of my best friends on the team; I wouldn’t change a thing,” he shared.
Though Atkin didn’t know it at the time, his spot was secure upon arriving at campus for preseason as a first-year.
“For some players who we are able to watch and evaluate and get to know before they arrive to campus, we may know that they are good enough to be on the team, and we may offer them a roster spot for preseason,” Barlow wrote about players in Atkin’s position. “For others, we may offer them a chance to try out,” he added.
Torres arrived on campus in a very different context — his spot had yet to be earned.
“During the first week of class my freshman year, I attended an info session about walking on to the team and promptly started the process,” Torres said. “It was a two-month process of daily training and test workouts with the other potential walk-ons, where they made regular cuts until just a few were left.” Now, Torres is a rower through and through and lives with several of his teammates.
Outside of a cap of 120 players every four years for football, there are no set limits on Princeton recruiting. According to former Dean of Admissions Janet Rapelye, though, coaches and admissions officers often face pressure to limit the number of recruits due to the already small number of spots available in each incoming Princeton class. As such, walk-on athletes like Atkin and Torres play a valuable role by essentially freeing up recruiting spots and adding depth to varsity teams.
Though some teams like soccer use walk-ons to fill bench spots, where players rarely see extensive time on the field, the role of the walk-on can vary. In fact, walk-ons form the backbone of some Princeton teams.
Women’s rugby is currently competing in just their third season as a varsity sport.
“We wouldn’t have a team without our walk-ons — they have been the heartbeat of our program as we’ve transitioned into Varsity,” Head Coach of Women’s Rugby Josie Ziluca wrote to the ‘Prince.’
“The walk-on players provide different perspectives on how to approach challenges, which has our team prepared for many tests and trials along the road of their four year journey,” she added. “They also provide inspiration and confirmation to folks who are curious about rugby, providing examples of people learning the sport for the first time to earning a starting position in a NCAA Division I league.”
For women’s rugby, which hosts open walk-on tryouts every fall and invitational tryouts each spring to fill out their roster for the season, the confirmation that truly anybody is welcome is critical.
“There’s a playing position for every body type out there, and through the training and skill-set building in a safe, fun environment, you’ll learn a lot about yourself too,” Ziluca wrote.
Developing walk-ons to start — and star — on a Division I varsity team is difficult; students who were unfamiliar with the rules just a year before face opponents who were recruited to play at a high level. There have been growing pains as the Princeton rugby squad, which played at the club level just a few years ago, faces opponents like Dartmouth, who heavily recruit their full team.
But their start this year has proved that their player development model does in fact work. This past week, they notched their first varsity win over Bowdoin, ensuing a massive celebration and proving that walk-ons can indeed find success — even with only a select few recruits on the team.
Walk-ons play for the sake of playing.Through varsity sports, many of these athletes get to pursue their lifelong passions as a part of the centuries-long tradition of Princeton athletics. Little slack, however, is cut for these non-recruits.
“The expectations are exactly the same with the recruits and walk-ons, and the treatment is exactly the same,” Atkin said.
And getting walk-ons into playing form, despite their athletic background, is no easy task.
“It’s a monumental challenge to prepare a walk-on athlete to have the mindset, courage, and skill sets to safely play against teams with rosters full of recruited players,” Ziluca wrote. “But when walk-ons can commit themselves to controlling those items and show up to get better every day, amazing things happen for them.”
Correction: A previous version of this piece stated that 18 percent of Princeton’s student body was recruited athletes, but this number includes walk-ons as well.
Diego Uribe is a head Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Tate Hutchins is an associate Sports editor, staff Audience creator, and News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Each week, Sports and Data writers analyze recent athletic competitions to provide analysis and insight on the happenings of Princeton athletics and individual players across the 38 intercollegiate teams at Princeton. Whether they are record-breaking or day-to-day, statistics deliver information in concise ways and help inform fans who might have missed the action. Read past By the Numbers coverage here.
Princeton Tigers: Nov. 1–7
24 games and matches were played across 18 sports and nine U.S. states over the past two weeks. Of the 13 games where only one team came out on top, the Tigers won 61.5 percent of matches, slightly less than the 63.6 percent in last week’s games. Multiple-day meets and tournaments are counted individually for each day of the competition. Competitions with more than one event or individual results such as golf and cross country are not included in our win percentage.
This week, the Tigers won over three-fifths of their games. They broke even with home field advantage this past week, taking four of eight in New Jersey. The Tigers, however, excelled at playing on the road, losing only one of their five games away from Old Nassau, including volleyball’s impressive win in New Haven — more on that to come.
All bark no bite
Women’s volleyball broke one of the longest standing home-court undefeated streaks this weekend with a four-set victory over Yale. The Bulldogs had triumphed in 30 home games in a row until the Tigers strolled into New Haven, led by sophomore hitter Kamyrn Chaney and her 25 kills.
“This win definitely meant a lot to everyone — particularly because of Yale’s incredible winning streak,” junior middle blocker Lucia Scalamandre wrote to The Daily Princetonian. “A lot of the girls on the team, including me, have some bad memories of losses in that gym, so it was very important to win that specific game.”
“I think you could see our determination in the way we played and in the energy of the girls off the court as well,” she continued.
Full swing ahead
First-year women’s golfer Olivia Duan played her way into the Ivy League Player of the Month for October. Duan shot a program-low 63 at the Evie Odom Invitational to begin the month.
Exalted eight
Princeton women’s soccer, recent Ivy League regular season champions and hosts of this weekend’s conference tournament, boasts eight All-Ivy honorees this season. Seniors Lily Bryant, Tyler McCamey, and Heather MacNab join junior Pietra Tordin on the first team, and senior Ryann Brown, senior Kate Toomey, junior Drew Coomans, and sophomore Zoe Markesini earned second-team laurels.
Lee’s late-game lunacy
Star junior point guard Xaivian Lee scored 16 of his 27 points in the second-half in the Tigers come-from-behind 81–80 win over Iona in Jadwin Gym on Monday. Lee — who turned down the NBA Draft and transfer portal last year — sank two free throws with just over three seconds left to claim victory for the Tigers in their first game of the season.
Starting sharp
Men’s and women’s fencing open as No. 4 respectively in the US Coaches preseason poll ahead of their first competition on Nov. 17 in Philadelphia. Both teams of Tigers are coming off Ivy League Championships last spring and only trail Harvard, Columbia, and Notre Dame in the national rankings.
Senior épée Mike Bissinger wrote to the ‘Prince,’ “We’re feeling great. We picked up a lot of promising first-years this year, and they’re all showing great discipline at practice.”
On channeling last season’s momentum into the upcoming one, Bissinger referenced the graduating seniors from last year. “Channeling the incredible leadership and energy of the guys above me who graduated last year will be crucial. Although fencing is objectively individual, the captains play a huge role in boosting team morale in the face of tough losses.”
“It is also added motivation that we are ranked behind Columbia after we beat them last spring,” he noted.
Carnegie chaos at the chase
At the Princeton Chase this Sunday, the men’s heavyweight 8+ A boat shattered the previous course record on Lake Carnegie. The A boat topped a crew from 2012 by 15 seconds with a time of 12:10.95, finishing first for the day in the Tigers home race. The women’s lightweight 8+ A boat also set a course record with a 14:22.03, a full twelve seconds faster than ever before.
All in all, the Tigers had a winning week, posting a win percentage over 60 percent. From golf to rowing to volleyball, the Tigers notched many successes on the course and court and look to have a strong finish to the season in fall sports with Ivy League championships looming and a strong start to winter seasons. Check back next week to learn about all things Princeton Athletics — By The Numbers.
Harrison Blank is an assistant Sports editor at the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Five years ago, a columnist for The Daily Princetonian argued that first-year Writing Seminar should be pass/D/fail (PDF)-only. Then, when COVID-19 struck, his argument was tested: Princeton made Writing Seminar PDF-only. At the time of the policy change, a peer academic advisor remarked that the change would “[give] people a chance to actually learn what’s being taught” and a writing program professor said that he hoped the change would “encourage students to further experiment with their writing.” Despite compelling reasons to keep Writing Seminar PDF, Princeton went back to mandatory letter grades. But even after the pandemic, the first-year Princeton experience remains intensely stressful, and not all students are equally prepared for a Princeton workload upon matriculation. It’s time to reintroduce the PDF option for Writing Seminar.
The only course every Princeton student must take, Writing Seminar is a rigorous, 12-person course that allows students to work closely with their professors as they develop their writing skills to match Princeton’s high standards. Success in Writing Seminar sets you up for success in other classes. According to the Princeton Writing Program, part of the goal of first-year Writing Seminars is “to emphasize transferable skills in critical inquiry, argument, and research methods.” This makes it especially important that students feel empowered to succeed in Writing Seminar without the pressures of harsh grading.
However, there is significant variability in students’ preparation for an advanced writing class. Many students have little to no experience writing long-form research papers when they arrive at Princeton. This affects their performance in classes like Writing Sem: Research from Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis shows that personal background shapes students’ experience with college writing. This background tends is tied to family income: it has been well-documented that, due to educational resource scarcity, among other factors, students from lower-income backgrounds are significantly less likely to be at the same writing levels as their higher-income peers.
Although Writing Sem is meant to level the playing field for future years of college, Writing Sem itself is an unfair playing field because of students’ different prior preparation — and for many students, Writing Sem itself is their most stressful writing class. A PDF grading option could help reduce that stress differential between students who are already comfortable with writing research papers and students who aren’t.
As of now, all first-year Writing Seminars are non-PDF, meaning that they must be taken for a grade, A through F. Yet other colleges and universities, such as MIT and Swarthmore, have instituted programs that make students’ entire first semesters pass/fail, demonstrating that this is a feasible policy even at an academically rigorous institution. While Princeton does not have this policy, the University’s closest equivalent is allowing students to PDF up to four courses during their time at Princeton. But Writing Seminar is not among them, even though students’ first year is often their most academically stressful, and Writing Sem one of the most stressful experiences in it. Allowing students to PDF Writing Seminar would vastly reduce the amount of stress they face by decreasing some of the emphasis put on first-semester grades.
By reinstating the PDF option for Writing Seminar, students with less experience could still be exposed to and expected to produce novel, research-based writing without fear of being behind their peers and earning a grade that does drag down their GPA. The overall goal of the Writing Seminar would still be accomplished — all students would still be able to get up to Princeton writing standards through lessons and assignments.
Policies like those at MIT, Swarthmore, and Princeton during the pandemic clarify that implementing a PDF option for Writing Seminar would not be an unprecedented change. In fact, it would also help students acclimate to University life with less grade-related stress. The expressed goal of Writing Seminar is to teach students to write Princeton-caliber research papers. Allowing students to PDF the course wouldn’t inhibit this educational goal – it would allow students to achieve it with much less stress.
Davis Hobley is a columnist for the ‘Prince,’ and a member of the Class of 2027 and intends to major in Neuroscience. He hails from Rochester, Mich. and can be reached through his email (dh2172@princeton.edu) and personal Instagram (@davis_20.23).
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.For students working toward an A.B. degree at Princeton, the foreign language requirement is a core part of their undergraduate education. For those starting at the 101 level, the requirement constitutes an introduction to rigorous language study that will span at least three semesters of college. Though many students test out of intro courses and into intermediate or advanced-level courses, the language requirement ensures meaningful student engagement with a critical field of study.
However, many Princetonians cease language study after completing the core requirement. In light of a disturbing national trend of institutions of higher learning shifting away from foreign language programs, Princeton should seek to defend the value of language study, encouraging students to pursue advanced language study in multiple languages. Specifically, language classes taken beyond the requirement should have a pass/D/fail (PDF) option.
In the past decade, foreign language enrollments on the collegiate level have tumbled dramatically. In the half-decade between 2016 and 2021, enrollment declined by 17 percent nationally. This decline was only part of the more severe language enrollment decline of nearly 30 percent between 2009 and 2021. This downward trend has dramatically outstripped even the general decline in college enrollment. In all, 961 language programs have been eliminated nationally, approximately 8.2 percent of all programs at the University level.
Princeton must be cognizant of the practical implications of this decline in language study. The University’s robust language study options is a decreasingly common stance among U.S. institutions. From 2016 to 2021, universities have eliminated 172 German, 164 French, 105 Chinese, and 80 Arabic programs, two of which — Arabic and Chinese — are State Department critical languages. These languages are essential to recognizing and engaging with an increasingly multilingual and interconnected world. Students who study them grow capable of connecting culturally, acquiring knowledge of customs and values through academic work, and engaging beyond the circumscribed bounds of English knowledge abroad.
A cross-lingual connection does not merely pertain to going abroad but is incredibly important to engage with an increasingly diverse United States, where some 20 percent of Americans speak a language other than English at home. Thus, engaging as a multilingual American in an increasingly multilingual environment is incredibly important.
Beyond language study’s socio-political implications, Princetonians would be well-served by the opportunity to grow as critical thinkers and learners while studying a second or third language. Presently, the University maintains a high standard for language course rigor. This makes sense to compel students to engage deeply with the content, but those who have already proven their mastery of these skills should be able to engage with additional language courses in a less demanding manner.
Students who have already completed the University language requirement should be able to utilize the PDF option for introductory language courses. Providing this option would ensure that the bar to entry for any given language remains reasonable in light of the increased demands of study as an undergraduate career progresses. The PDF option would limit student concerns about the effects of language courses on their GPA, allaying the fears of students looking at both a highly competitive job market and graduate, law, and medical school admissions environment.
Expanding the availability of the PDF option will not undermine the rigor of introductory language courses. Students working toward fulfilling the undergraduate requirement would still be held to the same standards as before. Preserving the rigor of introductory courses is essential to ensuring a robust foundation for further study; the benefit of increased access ought not come at the expense of entering students. Having PDF students in the class will not affect the experience of students in their first language class, especially since these students have already demonstrated their commitment to the material by enrolling in the class.
Princeton seeks to accomplish a rather noble — and practical — objective by requiring students to study a single foreign language to proficiency. The University should follow this prerogative to its logical conclusion, increasing proficiency in multiple languages — it is both in line with its commitment to service and its fundamental mission as an institution of higher learning.
Aidan Gouley is a freshman from Fairfield, Conn. intending to major in Politics. He is a columnist at the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached by email at aidan.gouley@princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.Upperclass students, do you have a draw time at the 95th percentile of all draw groups where you can score one of the most spacious singles or a quad with private bedrooms? If not, you might want to read on to prepare yourself for upperclass room draw.
Upperclass student room draw will begin at 9:30 a.m. on April 11 with a two-person group taking their pick, and will end April 17. It is the last cohort of a several-week-long room draw process that began with independent students on April 1, followed by residential college draw, which takes place from April 2 to April 10.
We categorized each upperclass room currently on the available rooms list by specific room type, square footage, access to laundry, and a relative popularity score. For the popularity score, we used last year’s available rooms lists to estimate the percentile of each room, calculated as the fraction of all available upperclass rooms that were picked after the room at hand.
Unlike last year, drawing into Walker Hall is again an option for undergraduates. In a statement to The Daily Princetonian, the University wrote, “There will be no graduate students residing in Walker Hall during the 2025-26 Academic Year.”
While rooms won’t leave the official housing list, rooms definitely have the potential to be added. In a comment to the ‘Prince’, the University stated that the available rooms list undergoes “near-constant change as students accept or decline room contracts,” providing merit to last-minute research prior to a group’s draw time.
The ‘Prince’ found 16 different types of rooms available to upperclass residents this year.
Aside from the 423 singles available to upperclass students this year, the most prevalent room type was for two residents, with 136 doubles listed on the available rooms list. Doubles are also the most diverse of the upperclass housing options, with 20 percent having one room, 16 percent having two private bedrooms, 32 percent having three rooms, and 32 percent having a common room and a double bedroom.
Three-room doubles were the earliest-chosen rooms in the 2024 upperclass draw, with rooms chosen at the 74th percentile of room draw participants on average. In other words, these rooms were on average selected in the first 26 percent of all room selections. Singles and quingles — quads with four private bedrooms and a common room — were chosen on average at the 63rd percentile.
In the 2024 upperclass draw, groups wholly avoided both normal quads — quads with two double bedrooms and a common room — and triples, each being in the 12th and 19th percentile on average respectively. This may suggest that upperclassmen desire their own living space as they move into their second half of undergraduate residence.
Singles consistently offer the largest square footage per resident on average. 19 of the 20 largest rooms sorted by square footage per resident are singles. However, singles can also offer residents some of the smallest living areas with 16 of the 20 smallest rooms being singles.
The largest room of three or more occupants in terms of square footage per occupant is 1901 Hall 411, a three-room triple with around 280 square feet per person. The smallest is Walker Hall 312, with 119 square feet per resident — less than half of 1901 Hall 411. Interestingly, a single around this size would be at the 6th percentile of all single rooms in last year’s draw.
1901 Hall has the highest diversity of room types, with nine types of rooms available. Feinberg Hall has the least unique room types with eight quads and one six-person room available.
About a quarter of the total number of singles are in Scully Hall, the only upperclass residence hall south of Butler College and the future site of Hobson College. While less centrally located, Scully was the first hall to run out of rooms during last year’s draw, providing more evidence for a high preference towards single rooms.
Little Hall has the most sizable singles with an average of 214 square feet across its four singles. 1903 and Brown Halls have the smallest quads with an average square footage of around 520 and 530 square feet, respectively. Quads in Dod and Lockhart Halls are over 700 square feet on average.
Overall, each upperclass residence hall has its own considerations depending on an individual’s preferences on square footage, privacy among roommates, location, or laundry services. While a Dod quad or Scully single might be drawn within the first 10 percent of rooms, draw groups lower on the list can plan realistically to maximize their housing experience next year.
Vincent Etherton is a head Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Alexa Wingate is a head Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Grading is a subject of great mystery and concern at most schools, including Princeton, especially as finals season approaches and the end of the semester draws near. But conversations around grading reform are less prominent, and the Princeton community has yet to sufficiently grapple with the important questions of this debate. Are the systems we have in place conducive to student learning and growth — or are they harmful to those objectives? And do they constitute an accurate standard for assessing students’ academic progress and achievements (if such a standard is even possible)?
The grade point average (GPA), which aggregates a student’s grades across all of their coursework, is, by most accounts, an imperfect and flawed tool for investigating the aforementioned matters. Its ubiquity, unfortunately, isn’t diminishing, so we must revise it in order to better meet our educational goals of fostering an appreciation for (and understanding of) a diversity of disciplines, developing an open and critically discerning mind, and, yes, serving humanity. To accomplish this, we should contextualize Princeton’s grading benchmarks by providing median grades for each course alongside students’ earned grades on their transcripts. This method, also adopted at other colleges, will give a fuller account of a student’s academic circumstances, the nature of their coursework, and their relative successes, to clarify what may seem at times arbitrary and random.
Median grades put a student’s performance in a class in the context of the overall course’s performance. Their introduction would be a quick, effective way of allowing students themselves — plus employers and graduate school admissions offices — to see and compare the student’s achievements in their courses to those of their peers. Quite often, low or unusual grades can puzzle transcript reviewers — were they flukes or signs of poor work? Median grades, in tandem with corroborating documentation (e.g., on a family emergency or severe illness), can answer these doubts, noting how abnormal a student’s performance actually was. Reporting the contextual median is thus a safeguard against potential misinterpretation of a student’s grades and serves to aid both the student and those requesting their transcript.
This metric benefits Princetonians not only beyond the University, but also while they’re on campus. A ramification of contextualizing grades through medians is the encouragement of academic venturing; students who might’ve otherwise feared taking a course interesting to them — because of the chances of receiving a “bad” grade (lacking any supporting explanation) — might be more inclined to go ahead and take a “risk,” if their individual grade were contextualized. This may, as a result, reduce stress and anxiety levels surrounding grading, and help build an environment of learning for learning’s sake, rather than for the sole pursuit of a floating letter. Posting medians, then, would assist students in their journey of broad exploration, part of Princeton’s mission of bestowing a comprehensive liberal arts education.
There, too, is a rationale for relying on the median, instead of another measure of central tendency, i.e., the average. While all measures are fairly easy to collect — and indeed, many classes at Princeton gather such data or make them known to their students — the median describes the middle value of a frequency distribution of grades and is less likely to be highly skewed by outliers, as an average would be. To guarantee more accurate sample sizes, reporting medians would be mandatory for courses with, say, 10 or more students enrolled, and optional for those with under 10 students. This procedure wouldn’t apply, however, to departmental independent work, e.g., junior papers or the senior thesis, due to the personal character of those components. Classes taken Pass/D/Fail or “Audit” would be exempt as well. Below is a prototype:
Course Title  Grade   Median
Course #1       B+           A
Course #2       A-            A-
Course #3       A+          B+
Course #4       C             B-
This isn’t an outlandish or outrageous proposal, for we already recognize that it works. Institutions of higher education across the country, like Indiana University and the University of California, Berkeley, now track average or median grades — in fact, the former goes further, detailing the “percentage of students who are majors in the given course department,” the grade distributions per section, and so forth. Cornell University, as yet another example, currently uses a system of contextualized grading through the reporting of class medians on student transcripts, as has Dartmouth College since 1994.
The merits of medians don’t just accrue for students and transcript viewers, though — they also aid faculty members: recording them would enable Princeton instructors to tweak and adjust their courses, if necessary. For instance, a median grade far lower than in previous years’ iterations might not be a total warning sign, but a persistent trend of significantly decreasing median grades might indicate a need to change something about the course (or students’ quality of output). Medians would function, then, as another form of feedback on a course’s structuring, pacing, and elements — a kind of self-evaluation. And if faculty members had this data for all courses, they could check for and ensure consistency of grading across academic fields, thus monitoring for and controlling rampant grade inflation or wild fluctuations.
As Dartmouth has done, these median figures shouldn’t be publicly circulated (e.g., on the Registrar’s website) in order to deter students from attempting to game course selection and purposely pick “easier” classes. After all, the intent of implementing this design is to facilitate academic risk-taking, much like the present P/D/F policy, lessen the focus on the letter grade itself and place more emphasis on the fun and enjoyment of learning. The intellectual rewards of wrestling with, and eventually mastering, unfamiliar or difficult material should be more treasured than the final letter grade. Therefore, students should only have statistics about classes they’ve finished taking.
Of course, the transition to a contextual GPA may come with its own complications. The biggest foreseeable troubles are on the logistical front. For a case study, look no further than the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, which killed its contextual GPA in 2017, despite years of efforts towards launching such a system. The UNC administration concluded that adding extra columns to the transcript and revamping the registrar’s site would be infeasible, citing “technical challenges” and “prohibitive costs.” Still, for Princeton, an educational institution with ample resources, these shouldn’t be large issues — indeed, they pale in comparison to far more serious problems that have to be dealt with (e.g., the conversion of certificate programs to minors or campus construction).
Contextualizing the student GPA through median grades grants every stakeholder involved a win: students have improved access to information at their fingertips about their performance and are incentivized to engage in academic exploration and risk-taking; faculty can use the data to make modifications to, and prioritize consistency in, their courses; and employers and graduate school admissions committees have a fuller picture about students’ work in each course and the personal circumstances that reflect upon that work.
This humble suggestion ought to be merely the start of an important discussion about grading reform at Princeton — one which we can hope won’t cease anytime soon. Adopting contextual grading through class medians, as outlined above, will prove an excellent first step towards demystifying the student GPA and grading process at Princeton.
Henry Hsiao is a first-year contributing columnist and assistant Opinion editor from Princeton, N.J. He can be reached at henry.hsiao@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Underneath the Princeton Public Library flows a hidden brook. Before Princeton was settled and developed, Harry’s Brook comprised the entirety of Spring Street, where the public library is now situated. Today, it runs via a concrete culvert beneath the streets of town. If someone were to put their ear to the pavement of the library’s parking lot, they might hear the river burbling away beneath.
But this body of water is not contained underground. It empties out into the Millstone River, which feeds into Lake Carnegie from the other side of Route 1. In total, the river spans a distance of just under 39 miles, incorporating over a dozen tributaries and providing much of central New Jersey’s drinking water.
The river has a rich history as both a gathering place for central New Jersey’s Munsee Lenape communities and early European colonizers, who formed the Delaware and Raritan (D&R) Canal, which runs alongside and at one point crosses over the Millstone, in 1834 as a direct line of transport between the cities of Philadelphia and New York.
In 1902, Howard Russel Butler, Class of 1876, asked steel magnate Andrew Carnegie to provide the funds for a lake where the University’s crew team could have more space to practice. Carnegie agreed, and by 1906, a dam had been placed at the confluence of the Millstone and the Stony Brook to form what we now know as Lake Carnegie. Now, some go through Princeton seeing only the lake, completely unaware of the river’s existence. Others, however, have been highly dedicated to exploring the Millstone’s topography, tributaries, history, and role in the Princeton area.
Anne McClintock
New Jersey’s Munsee Lenape communities have various traditions around the river and their own language to describe the wildlife environment it supports. At the annual Lunaape Language Camp in July 2023, Munsee-speaking language teachers and both Princeton University and Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS) faculty and students gathered on Lunaapahkiing, or traditional Lunaape Lands, around Princeton. The experience included a half-day journey on the Millstone led by community members.
Among the travelers were language keeper and teacher Kristin Jacobs and her son Barry Stonefish of the Eelunaapéewi Lahkeewiit, the Lenape Nation of Moraviantown, Ontario, Canada. They returned to campus in early November for Princeton’s third annual Munsee Language and History Symposium.
Jacobs and Stonefish reflected on their experiences of the river and the importance of water in Lenape culture. “For us, what’s most important is that it always begins with life,” Jacobs explained. “Water is life. It’s what creates life. It’s important to always protect that, so we use water in our ceremonies, and it’s a whole other area of knowledge.”
As a language teacher, words are especially important for Jacobs in describing natural entities. She noted that in the Lunaape language, some words are considered animate while others are inanimate, and many plants fall in the former category. There are also deep connections between many words and nature. Stonefish’s experience on the river was enhanced by learning the Lunaape names for the wildlife he was encountering as they traveled. “I rode with Nate, who works on the seed farm. The whole time, he was talking about plants, naming all the plants we saw, so it was a lot of fun,” said Stonefish.
For Jacobs, the whole experience stood out as meaningful. “The river journey was so beautiful,” she said. “Getting over the fear of being in the kayak was tough, but there were a lot of people who were comfortable paddling, and eventually seeing people get in and go across that first little bit made it feel better.”
To help Princetonians and community members continue engaging with both the river and the Lunaape language, Jacobs suggested putting up signage displaying traditional words for various plants in high-traffic areas along the river. “They could put up signs with traditional words… and where the meaning comes from. I feel like that could be meaningful,” explained Jacobs.
As Jacobs noted, the Millstone is a life-giving force, and many are involved in its protection. Since 2005, Jim Waltman ’86 has served as the Executive Director of the Watershed Institute, an organization based in Pennington, NJ with the mission of keeping the water clean and healthy through a combination of conservation, advocacy, science, and education. Waltman has had a life-long relationship with the river. He grew up in Princeton and later attended Princeton University as a biology major, where he joined the track team and often ran alongside Lake Carnegie and the canal.
Waltman spent his early career as a field biologist in the Galapagos Islands, but after earning his master’s, he went to Washington, DC for a six month internship where he “fell in love with policy and politics in a way I didn’t ever imagine.” He never returned to Yale for his Ph.D., instead working as a lobbyist who pushed for environmental legislation for 15 years. Waltman later moved back to Princeton and was reunited with the river of his childhood.
The Watershed Institute, originally called the Stony Brook-Millstone Watershed Association, was founded in 1949. Now, the institute is working on a number of initiatives, including trying to restore migratory fish by removing unnecessary dams along the Millstone, monitoring the river’s water quality, and working to combat HAB’s, or Harmful Algal Blooms, a type of cyanobacteria which endangers both wildlife and people. Staff and volunteers take samples of the river, involving local communities in the process of scientific testing and screening for toxins.
While Lake Carnegie is not dangerously toxic as of now, it’s “certainly not pristine,” according to Waltman. “Like most bodies of water, right after a storm, a lot gets dumped into the water,” he said. In order to prevent this, the organization works with New Jersey’s municipalities to strengthen water regulation, particularly of polluted stormwater.
Although Waltman characterizes our current times as especially difficult due to the changing climate and distorted water cycles, he is proud of the progress the institute has been able to make over the course of its history. “Looking back, the Watershed has been involved in every major water law and federal doctrine in the state… so it’s quite a legacy,” Waltman explained. Part of this legacy includes encouraging young people to engage with the institute’s programs and inspiring them to become scientists, teachers, and environmental activists. “It’s a great feeling, and a humbling one,” said Waltman.
Every fall, the Watershed Institute hosts one or more groups of Princeton Community Action and Outdoor Action groups. Waltman said that he always begins his sessions with Princeton students by saying, “Welcome to Princeton, and welcome to the Millstone Watershed.”
During one of his walking tours of the “hidden water of Princeton,” Waltman brought a group of students from the basement of the Princeton Public Library parking garage to Lake Carnegie. Waltman emphasized the importance of “getting those students to see when you walk around any place where the springs and rivers are, whether you’re in hills and valleys, or even if it’s an urban environment, even if it’s underground.”
Professor Anne McClintock
One Princeton professor who has a strong sense of the area’s “hidden water” is professor of Astrophysical Sciences Gaspar Bakos, who has declared himself the only Princetonian to commute to work by kayak, and harbors a dream to one day kayak all the way from the Millstone to the ocean.
Bakos has thoroughly explored the Millstone, even assigning his own names on Google Maps to its islands and banks. On one island, which he calls “Cormorant Island,” Bakos has found many beaver dams and has observed the beaver population cycles over the years. Bakos has also visited “Binocular Beach,” where his family went freshwater swimming, “Baby Banana Beach”, where he and his sons enjoyed a feast of bananas, and “Tire Beach,” where one can jump from a tire swing into the water. “Of course, it’s super dangerous, with floating debris everywhere. You never know what’s there,” Bakos warned.
In his travels, Bakos has often found himself entangled in thickets of lily pads. At times, he has been unable to proceed due to fallen trees and branches along the river. When he reaches such obstacles, Bakos simply hops out of the boat and hauls the kayak along with him. “My tactic,” Bakos explained, “is that I usually kayak as far as I can, getting totally exhausted, and then I go back. You can probably do about ten miles until it becomes very narrow.”
When Bakos first started traversing the river, he would bring a machete to clear the path in front of him, but soon had to upgrade to an electric chainsaw. “It felt really weird when I was standing in my kayak with a chainsaw, cutting branches falling all around,” said Bakos. “One day, I actually lost a part of my chainsaw in the water and had to dive in to get it out. And then I realized maybe this was not a good idea.”
As an astrophysicist, Bakos is particularly attuned to the nighttime wildlife of the river. When Bakos went kayaking at night, he noticed that bright lights from the hospital along Route 1 disturb the night environment. “I wish they could change that because this is a prime beaver area, and there are many, many beavers here whose environments are being altered.”
Bakos also hopes that in the future, there will be more opportunities for students to learn about the Millstone. “I think what’s incredible about [the Millstone] is how little it’s known…There’s no appreciation for this long slender patch of ecological landscape,” said Bakos.
Aaron Serianni
Students have also been encouraged to appreciate the river through Princeton’s Outdoor Action (OA) program, which offers occasional kayaking and canoe trips. OA Program Coordinator Candace Brendler moved to Princeton this past May and got the chance to go canoeing on the river with a class in early fall. “It was a really lovely section of the river that is in a really unique location,” said Brendler, noting the diversity of wildlife in such close proximity to the highway
Brendler has been paddling and rafting since she was in college and has always had an appreciation for rivers. “If you’re looking at a topographic view of the Earth, [rivers] are just like the veins… they’re the life-source,” she said. Through OA, Brendler hopes that she can “get more people to have positive experiences with the nearest body of water… to get more people to understand the value of rivers and hopefully better care for them.”
Director of the Program in Visual Arts Jeff Whetstone has created another opportunity for students to engage with the Millstone through a course he co-taught in Spring 2019 entitled “A River Runs Through Us.” Through the course, Whetstone hoped that students would realize “that they live in a hidden, natural and geologically unique environment. It’s perfectly visible, perfectly approachable, but no one knows that there’s a Millstone river running through campus,” said Whetstone, adding, “But all it takes for you to explore it, and it’s so easy to explore.”
Whetstone recounted the story of a day when the class was kayaking on the river and stumbled upon an abandoned beaver dam, which they proceeded to crawl into one by one on their hands and knees. “We just hung out there in the beaver lodge. You could still smell the beavers, and there was beaver hair all over the place,” said Whetstone. He added, “That was transformative for me because I had never done anything like that before.” Whetstone was struck by how comfortable, protective, and communal the lodge felt. “It didn’t feel exotic anymore. It’s almost like crawling into the skin of the beaver to visit their home,” he explained.
In addition to entering beaver dens, Whetstone has seen wild swans and held a freshly laid Canada goose egg on the Millstone. He also reported seeing “15 snakes an hour” in April. Whetstone emphasized the importance of protecting this nature with which we are so closely linked. He explained, “If we protect this crappy suburban wilderness around us, it’s much easier to have the mindset of protecting some more rare and grand wilderness somewhere else,” adding, “To see the grand wildernesses of the planet may make you think that the wilderness you are in is not important. But the nature that you live in is the most important nature at the present moment.”
Whetstone believes that students should recognize that the river has many different histories, including an indigenous cultural history, a period of colonial cultural history, and a modern cultural history. “The river runs through all those histories. So there is a cultural thread as well as a natural thread, and we can use it as a kind of skeleton to develop more comprehensive histories of the land.”
This ties into Whetstone’s idea that landscapes are more than just settings. “I think landscapes should be treated like characters, because they’re always changing, and they’re always influencing us… The Millstone should have a name on Princeton’s campus.”
Many of Whetstone’s students were deeply influenced by the course and maintained relationships with the river after their time as Princeton undergraduates ended. Maria Fleury ’22 took the course in the Spring of her first year and called it the best class she took. She reflected, “It was very impactful for me. It just completely shifted the way I related to Princeton as a place.”
Having grown up in an urban environment, Fleury was not fully comfortable interacting with animals at the start of the course. “Being on the river helped me engage with other creatures and understand their home,” she said.
Now completing a High Meadows Environmental Institute Fellowship at a climate science communications non-profit, Fleury still lives in Princeton and continues to appreciate her relationship with the river and the D&R Canal. “To me, rivers are just so powerful and majestic. I’ve had very emotional experiences and cried looking at the river,” said Fleury.
Amy Amatyah ’21 had a similar experience in the course, recalling how it opened her eyes to parts of Princeton’s campus she had never noticed before. Amatyah was a junior when she took the class and had never visited the towpath before, explaining, “To me, the towpath wasn’t a place I needed to be for school… so I didn’t go. That class was a real awakening to learning to be present in the place where I am.”
Amatyah noted that the specificity of the course’s focus on the Millstone allowed students to talk more broadly about a sense of place. “It was never just about the Millstone or the canal, it was about learning to be alive where you’re standing,” she explained, adding, “There’s a really beautiful New Jersey, and I would say go discover it.”
Raphaela Gold is a staff Features writer at the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the Millstone River runs under the Princeton Public Library. In fact, Harry’s Brook does. Additionally, the piece inaccurately outlined Waltman’s career path. The ’Prince’ regrets this error.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Street Week 2024 concludes with 629 students being offered spots in Bicker clubs. With the Class of 2026, Princeton’s largest undergraduate class in history taking to the street, also came historic numbers. According to a press release sent to The Daily Princetonian from the Interclub Council (ICC), a total of 1,193 students — about 80 percent of the sophomore class — took part in Street Week. This is the largest number of sophomore participants that the ICC has seen in the past decade.
Street Week took place between Jan. 29 and Feb. 6, as hundreds of undergraduates flocked to the eating clubs on Prospect Avenue for multiple nights of one-on-ones, group conversations, and games. Though the Class of 2026 is the largest class the University has ever seen, interest changed unevenly across the street. This year, there was a large increase seen in bickerees at Tiger Inn (TI), a drop in interest at Cannon Dial Elm, and Charter’s selective sign-in process leaving many who ranked it first on the ICC portal out in the cold.
Based on data obtained by ‘Prince,’ a total of 1,207 Princeton students were placed into eating clubs during Street Week 2024, a figure which includes juniors and seniors placed in eating clubs that were not counted in the figure provided by the ICC.
The ‘Prince’ reached out to officer teams at every eating club, along with the ICC. With the exception of the officers of the ICC, none of the officer teams responded by publication time.
629 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs, with 578 were placed into sign-in clubs. There was little change from last year's figure among Bicker clubs, when 633 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs, while the number of those who were placed into sign-in clubs rose from 516 the year prior. Of the 629 students accepted to a Bicker club this year, 607 were sophomores.
66 percent of sophomores who participated in Street Week chose to double bicker, a figure that has risen in recent years. In 2017, when double bicker was instituted for all clubs, the ICC reported that 46 percent of sophomores chose to double bicker.
Students had until Thursday, Feb. 8 at 8 p.m. to rank their club preferences. When decisions were released on Friday, Feb. 9 at 10 a.m., the site crashed, though it was up and running again within the next 30 minutes.
The ICC's computer system failed to place a small number of students in an eating club due to this year's swell in interest. According to Beams, "The computer matching system ensured that 99% of participants were matched with a club. Given 2026's unprecedented class size, requiring bickerees to rank just two sign-in clubs most likely resulted in the discrepancy between 99 and 100%." Beams stated that the ICC will recommend that students rank two additional clubs next year to avoid this outcome.
Tower accepted the most new members among the Bicker clubs, while Terrace welcomed the most among the sign-in clubs. The same situation occurred last year, though Tower’s incoming class size rose while Terrace’s fell.
Tower's incoming class in particular rose greatly. Tower welcomed 165 new members, including 10 juniors and three seniors — its largest incoming class since at least 2001. Tower members shared with the ‘Prince’ that 278 people signed up on the ICC website to bicker Tower compared to 232 last year. While 278 signed up to bicker Tower, only about 240 bickerees were discussed — a situation that also occurred last year, when about 170 bickerees were discussed. Tower had an acceptance rate of 59.35 percent, about the same as the 2023 rate of 60.8 percent.
Higher demand from 2026’s large class and limited spots available resulted in decreasing acceptance rates in most clubs. Tiger Inn, in particular, had a drop in acceptance rate from 29.4 to 25.7 percent. This made TI the most selective Bicker club on the street, narrowly edging out Ivy. This is the first time TI has held this distinction since double bicker was established for all Bicker clubs in 2017.
TI's increase selectivity was due to a surge in interest, with the number of bickerees rising from 296 to 374. TI’s incoming class rose from 87 last year to 96 this year, 90 of whom were sophomores and six of whom were juniors. TI’s acceptance rate was slightly lower for juniors than sophomores at 26 percent, with the club accepting six of 26 juniors — about 23 percent.
For the first time since at least 2001, more students bickered TI than Cap and Gown. Cap and Gown saw 360 bickerees, roughly unchanged from 358 last year, and accepted 100, yielding an acceptance rate of 27.8 percent. All those who bickered Cap and were admitted were members of the Class of 2026, as the club does not allow juniors or seniors to spring Bicker.
Cannon Dial Elm Club had 171 bickerees and accepted 101 new members. Both figures were down from last year, when Cannon had 193 bickerees and admitted 123. This yields an acceptance rate of approximately 59 percent, lower than the 63.7 percent acceptance rate last year. 99 of Cannon’s 101 admits were sophomores.
Ivy Club accepted 78 of its 291 bickerees this year, all of whom are sophomores. This marks a decrease from 87 last year, when Ivy accepted its biggest class ever. Despite this drop, 2024 marks the second-largest incoming class Ivy has seen since 2001. This decreased class size may be an attempt at reinforcing an Ivy practice of accepting a small number of students to foster a closer community. In 2016, former Ivy Bicker Chair Michael Moorin ’16 told the ‘Prince’ that “we believe Ivy’s small membership is core to its identity.”
Cottage Club accepted 89 students, 88 of whom were sophomores. According to individuals with knowledge of the process, about 270 students bickered Cottage, an estimate in line with estimated figures provided to the 'Prince' last year.
The ‘Prince’ also obtained data on how many people were placed into each sign-in club.
Terrace welcomed 143 new members into the club, 140 of whom are sophomores — the largest incoming class of any sign-in club.
Colonial offered spots to 120 members, of whom 115 were sophomores. This represents a surge from 70 people admitted last year. Colonial's uptick in membership may be due to its early sign-in program, in which new sophomore members could gain admission to the club before Street Week even began.
Quadrangle offered spots to 102 members, similar to the 109 it welcomed last year.
Cloister offered spots to 103 members, 102 of whom are sophomores, the largest incoming class the club has seen since 2014. Cloister has faced the possibility of closure given recent low membership numbers and financial difficulties, though a recent fundraising drive raised over $100,000 according to the club’s Graduate Board of Governors.
Cloister’s leadership admitted that many students placed into the club did not rank it first, with President Alexandra Wong ’25 saying in an email to admitted members that “Whether or not Cloister was your first choice, we’re thrilled to have you in 65 Prospect and we can’t wait to get to know all of you.”
Though Cloister admitted a large number of students, its struggles with yield in the past mean that this new influx may not lead to a surge in membership. A ‘Prince’ analysis found that only 18 of the 86 students Cloister admitted in February 2023 were listed as members in November.
Charter welcomed 110 members to the club, in line with the 102 it accepted in 2023. Charter is the only eating club that utilizes a selective sign-in process that awards points to prospective members for demonstrating interest in the club, including attending events such as coffee chats pre-winter break and during Street Week.
Charter has increased in popularity since its adoption of selective sign-in in 2020. Based on the point values and eating club placements of several members who ranked Charter first, the ‘Prince’ corroborated that the cutoff for admission to Charter was approximately 13 points — an increase from last year’s cutoff. Using this estimate, anyone with less than 13 points, or who did not rank Charter first, was not offered membership into the club.
With Charter continuing to increase in popularity, but not increasing its incoming class, conversations are re-emerging whether Charter should become a Bicker club as it decided to do in 2021 — a plan that was eventually dropped. In interviews with the ‘Prince,’ two students who ranked Charter first but did not gain admission to the club said they do not believe Bicker is the solution to rectify Charter’s admission woes, but failed to conceive any alternatives to handling the club’s continued surge in popularity.
“I kind of just put the blame on me for not deciding early enough. I hope they [the eating clubs] take this as a learning experience. So maybe they’ll try to change the system somehow next year to make it less stressful for people,” Dashram Pai ’26, a sophomore who ranked Charter first and said he received 12 points, said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’
Pai is a staff Constructor for the Puzzles section of the ‘Prince.’
Olin Zimmet ’26, a sophomore who ranked Charter first and said he received 12 points, told the ‘Prince,’ “The unfortunate nature of my — and many others’ — circumstances is simply due to the sheer number of students who vied for a spot, not any wrongdoing on the part of Charter or its officers.”
To many members, alumni, and students, Charter has developed a unique identity as a club that rejects evaluative Bicker, making such changes difficult.
“Evidently, this outcome is unfortunate for folks like me who had 12 or 13 points and were not admitted, but I cannot think of another way for Charter to both remain selective and make the system more fair than it already is,” Zimmet added.
Charter was not the only club that left students disappointed at 10 a.m. on Friday.
“I’d say that I felt like I could pretty much waltz in, no problem,” Courtney Harrison ’26, an athlete on the softball team who bickered Cannon, said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ Harrison was not among the 101 new members accepted into Cannon, despite the fact that all of the other sophomores on her team that bickered Cannon gained admission into the club. Cannon members are primarily athletes.
Harrison said that her rejection from the club left her in a state of “denial.”
She learned of the news from her teammates Thursday night so that she wouldn’t be “blindsided” on Friday morning. Harrison’s team assured her that she was not “red carded” during Cannon deliberations, in which a member of the club negatively flags a bickeree, eliminating them from discussion and the possibility of membership.
Despite these frustrations, most sophomores emerged from Street Week satisfied, with the ICC saying that 81 percent of students who participated in Street Week were placed into their first or second choice club.
In the wake of Street Week, some students have begun to explore alternate options for their dining plan next year, such as joining a co-op, going independent, enrolling in the University dining hall plan, or joining another sign-in club, with Pai saying he hopes to sign in to Colonial, while Zimmet plans to go independent.
The end of Princeton’s unique and historic tradition has brought reflection and melancholy to the students who participated.
“Social standing doesn’t speak to how you are as a person and your character,” Harrison added. “What’s important in being at this university and at any university is choosing people that really see you as you generally are.”
Even though there is still much to decide, some students, like Harrison, are just happy to go back to normal life.
“During that week I just felt like I wasn’t putting my best quality forward. So finally [when Street Week was over] I felt like I could exclusively start focusing on academics as well as softball.”
Justus Wilhoit is a senior News writer and assistant Audience editor for the ‘Prince.’
Mary Ma contributed data visualization for this piece.
Note: This piece has been updated since publication to include an additional figure on the number of bickerees.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Street Week 2025 has concluded, with all of the 1,263 students who chose to pursue an eating club given a place according to a press release from the Interclub Council (ICC). 83 percent of the Class of 2027 participated in Street Week, up from 80 percent of the Class of 2026 last year. Tiger Inn (TI) remains the most selective club, Cap and Gown Club has reclaimed the distinction of being the most bickered club, and Tower has seen a near 17 percentage point decrease in acceptance rate from last year, from 59 to 42 percent.
Street Week refers to a week of conversations and social events during which many sophomores and juniors explore the various eating clubs located on Prospect Avenue. This year’s Street Week was held from Feb. 2 to Feb. 7.
In a press release issued to The Daily Princetonian, President of the ICC Vincent Jiang ’25 shared that 119 juniors and 1,144 sophomores were placed into the 11 eating clubs.
Last year, the ICC failed to place a small number of students  — less than one percent — into an eating club due to the demand from the unprecedentedly-large class of 2026. This year, the ICC was able to place all students who took part in Street Week activities, as all registered students were required to rank all five sign-in clubs, instead of just two, which was the practice in years prior.
“The Street as a whole has successfully adapted to the larger size of the Class of 2026 and beyond, reflected in our increased numbers with many clubs reaching physical capacity,” Jiang wrote.
The ‘Prince’ contacted officer teams at every eating club, as well as the ICC. Jiang told the ‘Prince’ that “the eating clubs have discussed and we have decided that we are going to send out one joint ICC press release.”
There are three systems for admittance into the eating clubs. Cloister Inn, Colonial Club, Quadrangle Club, and Terrace Club, all use the “sign-in” system, where students are free to sign up for the clubs, and the students are randomly selected to join a given club based on the space available.
An additional feature of the sign-in option is the group sign-in, which allows groups of sophomores and juniors to sign-in to the same club with their friends. The ICC shared in their press release that they saw “32 students (across 10 groups) participate in the ICC’s group sign-in feature.” This was an increase from only 25 students from five groups last year.
Cannon Dial Elm Club, Cap and Gown, Cottage Club, Ivy Club, Tower, and Tiger Inn all use the “bicker” system, where prospective members engage in conversations and games with current members. Clubs then hold member or Bicker committee discussions that determine which students each club accepts. Each student is able to bicker up to two clubs.
Charter Club operates on a third, unique system of acceptance. It is the only club that uses a selective sign-in process, awarding points to prospective members for demonstrating interest in the club, including by attending events before winter break and during Street Week.
Following criticism for its selective sign-in process during last year’s Street Week, when people who attended 12 out of 14 events were not accepted to the club, then-Charter President Anna Johns ’25 announced in November that there would be changes to make the process more accommodating. Charter would hold 14 point-earning opportunities again in 2025. However, this year, the eating club capped the number of points an individual can receive at nine.
“We hope that what this will do is reduce some pressure, you don’t have to go to all 14 events, because we stop counting at nine,” Johns said at a panel held by the ICC in November.
Charter’s process is non-evaluative, so if more students get nine points and rank Charter first than there is space in the club, membership will be selected via a lottery.
Registration for Street Week lasted from the afternoon of Jan. 26 to Feb. 1. Students had until Thursday, Feb. 6 at 8 p.m. to rank their club preferences, before decisions were released the next day at 10 a.m. The ranking window for the eating clubs opened on Feb. 4 at 8 p.m. and closed on Feb. 6 at 8 p.m. At 10 a.m. on Feb. 7, students received notification of their acceptance to an eating club. Bicker discussions generally start on Tuesday or Wednesday night and can last into the wee hours of Friday morning.
In the press release, Jiang stated that “735 students utilize[d] the ICC’s double-bicker.” Of the total 1,795 bickerees, which included double-bickerees twice, 325 students single-bickered, meaning a total of 1,060 students bickered this year. 203 signed into clubs without bickering.
624 of the 1,060 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs — a five person decrease in accepted Bicker students from last year.
TI was the most selective club, accepting 96 of the 395 bickerees for a 24.3 percent acceptance rate, compared with last year’s 25.7 percent acceptance rate. 90 of these accepted students were sophomores, while the remaining 6 were juniors. TI accepted the same number of students this year as it did last year.
Cannon Dial Elm had the highest acceptance rate of bicker clubs this year, offering admittance to 118 of its 196 bickerees for a 60 percent acceptance rate. This was a 1.1 point increase in acceptance from last year. Cannon admitted 101 members last year.
Tower let in the most members among the Bicker clubs, accepting 143 of the 337 bickerees. This year, Tower saw an increase in bickerees, compared with 278 last year.
While 337 signed up to bicker Tower, only 302 went to Bicker sessions and were thus discussed. Tower had an acceptance rate of 42.4 percent, a decrease of 17 percentage points from last year.
Cap and Gown was the most bickered club with 397 bickerees, reclaiming the title from TI, which was most-bickered last year.. The club accepted an equal number of male and female bickerees, welcoming 100 new members total. The 25 percent acceptance rate is a 2.6 point decrease from last year’s acceptance rate.
Head Audience Editor and Senior News Writer Justus Wilhoit ’26 is a member of the Cap and Gown Club and has recused himself from reporting on the club.
Ivy Club had a 30.4 percent acceptance rate, admitting 79 members out of 260 bickerees, a 3.6 point increase from last year. Last year, the club accepted 78 of its 291 bickerees, all of whom were sophomores.
Ivy has prided itself on accepting a small number of students to foster a close community. In 2016, former Ivy Bicker Chair Michael Moorin ’16 told the ‘Prince’ that “we believe Ivy’s small membership is core to its identity.”
Cottage Club welcomed 88 new members out of its 240 bickerees, a 36.7 percent acceptance rate relative to last year’s 33 percent.
Quadrangle Club accepted the most new members among the sign-in clubs, a distinction held by Terrace last year. Quadrangle Club welcomed 155 new members into the club, 133 of whom are sophomores, compared with 102 new members overall welcomed last year.
Cloister offered spots to 86 members, a decrease from last year when they offered spots to 103 members. Notably, almost 14 percent of Cloister’s new members were also offered spots last year.
Charter welcomed 100 members to the club, in line with the 110 accepted last year.
Terrace welcomed 131 members to the club, in line with 143 new members welcomed last year.
Colonial welcomed 120 members to the club, the same number welcomed to the club last year.
82 percent of students who participated in Street Week were placed into their first or second choice club, an increase from 80 percent last year, according to the ICC. In the wake of Street Week, some students have begun to explore alternate options for their dining plans next year, such as joining a co-op, going independent, re-enrolling in the University dining hall plan, joining a sign-in club, or waiting to bicker again in the fall.
However, even getting a spot in a bicker eating club during Fall Bicker isn’t a guarantee: The process has become more competitive with lower acceptance rates and fewer spots available in recent years.
Students will have until 9 a.m. on Feb. 23 to sign in to the open clubs: Cloister, Colonial, and Quadrangle.
Editor’s Note: The article has been updated to reflect the number of students offered spots in Colonial Club during Street Week 2025.
Justus Wilhoit is a head Audience editor and senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Kenosha, Wis. and typically covers Princeton’s eating clubs and co-ops, identity and student life, and the Trump administration.
Luke Grippo is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including USG, the CPUC, and institutional legacy, but loves to write in any area.
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.This year, 83 percent of sophomores participated in Street Week, and 1,263 students were placed into an eating club. We’ve all heard the arguments for and against bicker and for and against eating clubs as institutions. This year, we asked our writers to share more nuanced reflections on what works and doesn’t work about Street Week 2025 – what should be preserved, and what should be reformed.
By Siyeon Lee, Associate Opinion Editor
Laughter, music, and damn good tacos were my main takeaways from the Brown co-op’s sophomore dinner a few weeks ago. In the warm beige glow of the bustling kitchen, I kept thinking to myself, “Why does nobody talk about how nice this is?” While I was set to bicker in the upcoming week, I saw myself thriving in one of Princeton’s four co-ops, student-run dining communities where members cook, eat, and clean together.
Co-ops are a niche choice at Princeton, but they deserve more appreciation. They offer a tight-knit community, cost nearly 95 percent less than eating club dues, and teach critical life skills — Cooking? Cleaning? Who would’ve thought? It’s natural to gravitate toward the Street when most upperclassmen join eating clubs — I did, too. But while people cite social life and community as their reasons for joining, co-ops offer both at a fraction of the price. Sure, they’re different — you won’t have members-only formals or hundreds of members to constantly interact with, as most co-ops range from 30–50 people. But my friends in co-ops still enjoy the street through guest meals, and many use the money they save on multi-city trips across the globe or even a car.
Though I love my eating club, I plan to reevaluate next fall whether a co-op might be a better option. Whether you’re in an eating club or not, you absolutely should, too.
Associate Opinion Editor Siyeon Lee is a sophomore from Seoul, South Korea intending to major in History. She can be reached at siyeonlee[at]princeton.edu.
By Shane McCauley, Assistant Opinion Editor
This bicker season, Princeton students of all class years got a unique look into eating club life through an Instagram account called The Hungry Tiger. In a series of reels, the account’s creators tried club cuisine, interviewed members and dining staff, and gave a glimpse into each club’s unique traditions.
With uniformly positive food reviews and quick jump-cuts, I wouldn’t call the account’s content independent journalism. But as a first-year with little knowledge of eating club culture, it still helped assuage my anxiety about club life. Clubs should continue offering digital glimpses into club life to familiarize first-years with eating clubs beyond parties and reputations.
Before I arrived at Princeton, I saw eating clubs as intimidating, elitist institutions shrouded in mystery. And as a first-year, attending their parties doesn’t exactly convey what being a member is like. The Hungry Tiger’s content — simple as it is — still offered valuable information about club atmospheres as my sophomore year draws closer.
While students can learn about club cultures by participating in meal exchanges or pre-bicker events, many first-years don’t have close friends in several clubs with whom they can meal swap, and pre-bicker events are generally limited to sophomores.
Unfortunately, the account was unable to film inside Cottage or Ivy, in the latter case due to a strict no-filming policy. But clubs can maintain their alluring reputations without keeping themselves entirely secret. To increase transparency about club life for all students — including first-years — clubs should take every opportunity to expand their digital presence, perhaps beyond simple food reviews.
Shane McCauley is an Assistant Opinion Editor from Boston intending to major in Anthropology. He can be reached at sm8000[at]princeton.edu.
By Christofer Robles, Editorial Board Chair
While I have previously defended Bicker in this paper, this year I am feeling much less sympathetic. I call on The Interclub Council (ICC) to investigate and publicize the Bicker processes of each club. Without transparency about various clubs’ Bicker processes, it’s impossible to know which aspects of bicker are essential to preserving club cultures and which ones are inequitable. Only then can any reasonable debate on the merits of the process be had.
I continue to believe in the spirit of Bicker: “every club on Prospect has an identity — Bicker just makes that identity intentional.” But while I, and others before me, have called for “a strong commitment to a better Bicker,” it is becoming increasingly clear that “better Bicker” is too ill-defined of a goal for a few twenty-somethings to accomplish without a commitment to finding concrete reforms.
Listing grievances with a specific club would be counterproductive — the shortcomings of Bicker are shared between the selective clubs. Talk to any upperclassman in any Bicker club: injury is a feature of the process writ large.
I call on the ICC to hire an independent law firm to investigate problematic Bicker practices, publish their findings, and push Prospect Avenue towards a more progressive Bicker. Bickerees are often ignorant to the inner workings of their prospective clubs — they are owed transparency. Clubs should be beholden to common standards of inclusivity — scandal is not foreign to the Street, and social stigma and club loyalty prevent Bicker from receiving its due open criticism and correction.
Christofer Robles is the Editorial Board Chair for the 149th Board and a member of the illustrious Cap & Gown Club. He can be reached at cdrobles[at]princeton.edu.
By Jorge Reyes, Columnist
This year, Cap & Gown was the most bickered club. As a first-year on financial aid planning on bickering next spring, this does not surprise me.
While club culture, leadership, and other factors certainly contribute to the choices made by bickering students each year, strong financial aid policies can encourage students to consider clubs that are otherwise inaccessible and impact the makeup of clubs’ Bicker classes.
For students seeking to join a club whose dues exceed the University’s financial aid allowance, Cap & Gown is one of the most accessible. Their commitment to ensure students on full financial aid pay no out-of-pocket expenses, as well as the grant provided to sophomores to cover the difference between fees and University aid, does not go unseen. Ivy and Cannon are the other bicker clubs with dues over the University allowance.
Although the rest of the Bicker clubs also have ways to reduce the financial burden for students on aid, Cap & Gown stands out by assuring that all students on financial aid receive a grant to help with fees rather than hold a “case-by-case” process like some of the other clubs.
For future Street Weeks, I encourage the leadership of all clubs to consider the role their financial aid policies play in attracting members. Take it from a current first-year who participated in the Freshman Scholars Institute and is already planning for Street Week: Cap & Gown’s transparent financial aid policies make it an attractive choice for many bickerees.
Jorge Reyes is an Opinion columnist for the ‘Prince.’ You can read his column, “No Tiger Left Behind,” every three weeks on Tuesday here. He can be reached at jr7982[at]princeton.edu.
By Sophia Zuo, Contributing Writer
While Princeton students are no stranger to rainbow-striped Google calendars, or sprinting from one commitment to the next, the compressed duration of Bicker adds unnecessary strain and fatigue to an already stressful situation.
As I witnessed firsthand, double bickerees had to move from a morning of classes to a grueling afternoon of bicker sessions, and chose chugging caffeine over getting a good night of rest in order to do it all.
Students inevitably take bicker extremely seriously — it’s a heavy determinant of future social circles. But its condensed timeline creates a pressure-cooker environment where students are constantly on edge, yet must appear relaxed and carefree in order to make a good impression.
Bicker is comparable to standardized testing: both are one-shot, widely bought-into, and high-stakes. But while the SAT or AP exams may measure intelligence or understanding of an academic topic, bicker serves to measure something as volatile as personality, which, during the bicker process, we lose control over.
It can be argued that a process as stressful as bicker should be as short as possible. However, if the length of bicker means students are performing worse and unable to reflect their best selves, it’s worth reconsidering alternatives.
Clubs could spread their Bicker sessions over longer periods, or the ICC could mandate that clubs host sessions across different days. For those who choose to double Bicker, such changes would make Bicker a much more forgiving process, and allow students to come to sessions unexhausted and as genuine as possible.
Sophia Zuo is a sophomore contributing writer from Hsinchu, Taiwan. She can be reached at sz5856[at]princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.The 2025 eating club admission process ended on February 7th. This year’s Bicker and sign-in was characterized by a record-breaking 83 percent participation rate among the Class of 2027, the second year of Princeton’s class size expansion, leading to sinking acceptance rates at many clubs. Today, we take you inside the notoriously opaque Bicker process and analyze its outcomes.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Each year, Street Week brings exciting opportunities, as hundreds of sophomores navigate the eating club selection process — but with Bicker clubs, on average, rejecting nearly two thirds of applicants, it also brings disappointment for many students.
Tower, in particular, had a drop of 17 percentage points in its acceptance rate — the lowest since at least 2018. No club had a significant increase in acceptance rate. This Street Week, 624 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs, compared to 629 in 2024 and 633 the year before. The Class of 2027, with 1,366 members, is the second expanded class year to participate in Street Week.
With hundreds of students vying for limited spots, some individuals felt daunted by the numbers. Olivia Bell ’27 held the perspective that Bicker felt less about personality and more about connections.
“Cap, I didn’t think I’d get in … I think it’s mainly about who you know, and not as much about your character and if they like you as a person,” said Bell. She ultimately joined Charter.
“I had trouble believing that out of the 400 people bickering Cap, they’ll like me over 300 other people — for a while, I thought to myself, is there even a point bickering?” added Melody Cui ’27. She is now a member of Cap and Gown.
Despite increasing interest in Cap and Gown, its accepted class sizes have remained relatively constant in recent years. While most clubs have increased membership to accommodate growing demand, Cap is the only Bicker club that has not substantially expanded since at least 2021. This lack of change has made an already selective process even more competitive, as more students apply for the same number of spots each year.
While Tower accepted one of its largest Bicker classes since 2000, its acceptance rate also dropped significantly from last year, making entry into the club more competitive than expected. This trend reflects growing interest in Tower.
Though double Bicker was instituted for all clubs in 2017, offering students more flexibility, the uncertainty surrounding admission still impacts how some students rank their club preferences.
“When I was ranking the clubs, I was thinking about what club I would want to go to the most, but also realistically what club would I have a chance of getting into,” Cui explained. But ultimately, she decided to trust her instincts. “At the end of the day, they’ll choose what they want, so I should choose what I want too.”
Some clubs, like Charter and Cap, have started accommodating for the size increase. Charter, for instance, is currently expanding its dining space, while Cap added a new wing to their dining room.
Overall, the number of newly admitted Bickerees hasn’t kept up with Princeton’s growing class size, leaving acceptance rates tighter than ever. For the coming years, students may expect to continue bickering with a mix of excitement, strategy, and uncertainty, hoping in the end to find a place that feels like home.
Chima Oparaji is a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
When I entered Tiger Inn (TI) for Bicker two years ago, it was my second time in the building. I chose to bicker TI because I felt that the club had made strides to be more inclusive and heal their reputation and community. Nevertheless, I was unsure about joining the club and remained fearful of a cold and condescending environment, considering the negative past surrounding the bicker process and the troubling history of the club. Instead, however, I found a friendly and welcoming crowd of students excited to get to know me. I had such a pleasant experience that I joined the eating club and have loved it ever since.
Last year, I was apprehensive to see the other side of the process. After reading several angry criticisms of the eating clubs and hearing rumors of corruption and discrimination, I worried that my love for TI would sour. However, I was once again surprised. There was a deliberate and embodied display of compassion and acceptance of all bickerees that permeated the core of the process.
Though my experience as a bickeree and a member has been nothing but positive, I cannot deny the truth. Systems of power are self-replicating: we selected sophomores who we knew and liked and excluded those who didn’t fit the mold. At times, this exclusion can be nasty, prejudiced, and underhanded. Contrary to the hawkish words of its critics, however, Bicker is not the one to blame. Bicker is an explicit representation of power dynamics that are implicitly present in other social groups. These toxic power dynamics, entangled with a larger American, scholarly, and capitalist culture, are present in Bicker and sign-in clubs alike. These dynamics need to be exposed and restructured with reflexivity and transparency in mind.
Bicker brings to the surface what remains hidden in other settings, like the sign-in clubs. This hidden exclusion manifests in sign-in clubs through members hiding social hierarchies: a friend of mine recently complained that he barely knew anyone in his sign-in club because the cliques made him uncomfortable. The fact that this kind of exclusivity is obscured means that it has the potential to be much worse. Clubs could secretly manipulate the sign-in process without accountability, arbitrarily accepting entire teams or friend groups, while waitlisting others. Shrouded under an assumption of inclusivity, sign-in clubs have the potential to hide corrupt practices.
To be clear, sign-in clubs are probably not currently doing (and would likely never do) something so devious and drastic, and many students join the current sign-in clubs because they are less affiliated with external power systems. However, if Bicker were to be abolished, I doubt that the egalitarian dynamic of sign-in clubs would be adopted by the rest of the street. If all clubs were forced to abandon Bicker, it would be foolish to expect Greek letter organizations, sports teams, clubs, and other groups, to loosen their grip on their social capital. They would simply continue their practices behind an additional layer of secrecy, increasing the barrier to equity.
Currently, every student who signs in to eating clubs is almost guaranteed to get into at least one. If Bicker is abolished, formerly selective clubs may attempt to uphold exclusivity through price hikes and other barriers to entry that would disproportionately affect marginalized identities. In clubs where systems of exclusivity are the norm, exclusivity would perpetuate itself whether its execution is public or private. In addition, large intersecting institutions will continue to exercise and reproduce their power whether Bicker clubs exist or not. Removing Bicker is not the answer to elitism and exclusivity. It is a symptom of a real problem, but ending Bicker would only obscure that symptom and make the disease untreatable. In fact, the benefit of a system like Bicker is that it can be improved and edited.
A candid, transparent Bicker would allow for more regulation and could create a culture of accountability. To do so, it should be mandatory for clubs to publicize demographic data of their bickerees and accepted members. This would encourage clubs to seek out diverse crowds and decrease phenotypical biases.
Further, the score manipulation known as “dirty bickering”  — inflating or tanking a bickeree’s score due to factors outside of their performance at Bicker — needs to be either actively policed or embraced as a feature. Policing dirty bickering could involve introducing and enforcing double-blind and random segments of Bicker and instituting punishments for engaging in foul play.
On the other hand, “embracing” dirty bickering could look like allowing official bids from affiliated organizations or normalizing sophomore scores based on how many members they know. This process is what already occurs behind the scenes. Publicizing and standardizing this process would at least inform all those involved and be the basis for some progress. Many of the grievances about Bicker come from the fact that it falsely presents itself as a meritocratic process. At the very least, sophomores should be properly informed by the eating clubs if their acceptance is not only about how cool they are but also about who they know. We must either eliminate or legitimize this aspect to “clean up” Bicker and set sophomores up for success.
All members should also be involved in Bicker discussions. What I loved the most about TI discussions is that we heard everyone’s voice, and nearly every bickeree had representation and consideration. On the other end of the spectrum is a conclave-style selection process where a small council conspires behind closed doors to select new members. Bicker should avoid this technique and instead adopt a more open and honest process with an idea of equal opportunity and cooperation.
Another issue with Bicker is that the power differential between members and bickerees is steep, which adds unnecessary tension and decreases accountability. To narrow this gap, there ought to be a reflexive scoring system, where bickerees score members in the same way members score bickerees. This new rating would affect the member during discussions, where their judgments would be weighted according to their score. This would discourage intimidation tactics and disrespectful practices. Trends in these scores could assist in informing disciplinary actions and address club-wide shortcomings.
Another difficulty of Bicker is that it is a high-octane social stressor packed into the first few days of school in the spring semester. Bicker should be a long, low-frequency process that starts in the fall with events that contribute tangibly to Bicker results. Then, there could be many more lower stake and lower intensity events in which more sophomores could participate. This way, sophomores who are traveling, sick, or just having a bad day aren’t being unjustly excluded. Currently, many pre-Bicker events have no direct impact on Bicker scores, meaning that they only impact dirty bickering. These events need to be a part of the selection process in a regulated way. In addition, decreasing the stress around the event and letting the sophomores get to know the club more would alleviate some of the pain of the process.
Bicker is a unique opportunity to bring power dynamics and corruption into the limelight. It has the potential to be a regulatory tool if used in the right manner. I am not claiming that Bicker is the only option for the future of Princeton’s social scene. However, it would be unwise to remove it hastily. Abolishing Bicker would only obscure misdeeds and slow progress toward inclusivity and egalitarianism. We can create a Bicker with which we are all comfortable by restructuring with transparency in mind. Implementing a reflexive scoring system and a more prolonged, low-pressure process can mitigate the power differential and anxiety associated with Bicker. The time has come for Bicker to evolve, and the appropriate adjustments have the potential to transform it into a positive force in Princeton’s social milieu.
David Smith is a senior, a member of Tiger Inn, and the co-chair of the club’s DEI committee. He is a former staff Audience creator for the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached at dcs4@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.2024 Fall Street Week concluded with 203 students in the Classes of 2025 and 2026 being offered spots in eating clubs. 46 students were offered spots in four of the six Bicker Clubs — neither Tiger Inn nor Cottage Club held Street Week events. Fall Street Week took place between Sept. 3 and Sept. 10, as undergraduates flocked to the eating clubs on Prospect Avenue for multiple nights of one-on-ones, group conversations, and games.
Two of the five sign-in clubs, Terrace Club and Charter Club, also did not hold Fall Street Week events. Three did participate in Fall Street Week: Quadrangle Club, Colonial Club, and Cloister Inn. Each hosted a variety of events for juniors and seniors each afternoon, ranging from karaoke nights to ice cream socials.
With 80 percent of the Class of 2026 — Princeton’s largest undergraduate class in history — taking part in Street Week last spring, the effects are still felt months later. A press release from the Interclub Council (ICC) shared with The Daily Princetonian revealed that 36 seniors (2.68 percent of the Class of 2025) and 167 juniors (11.13 percent of the Class of 2026) participated in Fall 2024 Street Week.
The ICC wrote that “the Street as a whole is continuing to adapt to the larger size of the Class of 2026 and beyond and that is reflected in our increasing numbers with many clubs reaching physical capacity.”
In a sponsored content article created by the Graduate Interclub Council (GICC) and published in the ‘Prince’ back in May, GICC Chairman Hap Cooper ’82 warned students of the limited spots remaining and encouraged those who were not yet placed to not remain committed to a particular eating club following the conclusion of 2024 Spring Street Week.
“We [GICC] wanted to communicate now that if fall bicker is held at all during the 2024–25 school year, spaces will be EXTREMELY limited and a majority of selective clubs will not participate. Their physical capacity limitations won’t allow it,” he wrote at the time.
Cooper encouraged individuals to join clubs that have room, and stated there will be more opportunities in the future for clubs to collaborate.
“The GICC is committed to ensuring ALL eleven clubs are viable and robust … indefinitely. We are also materially stepping up our percentage of joint parties and activities — starting immediately. So no matter what club you join, you will be mixing with virtually everyone on the Street,” Cooper added.
Students had until Thursday, Sept. 12 at 8 p.m. to rank their club preferences, and decisions were released on Friday, Sept. 13 at 10 a.m. 44 percent of seniors were placed into their first-choice club, but just 20 percent of juniors were placed into their first-choice club.
The ICC’s computer system was able to place 100 percent of students into an eating club. Earlier this year, the computer system failed to place a small number of students in an eating club due to Class of 2026’s unprecedented class size.
Tower accepted the most new members among the Bicker clubs this fall. Tower accepted half of 44 bickerees, welcoming 22 new members, including 9 seniors and 13 juniors. Tower’s new members add to the 165 bickerees previously accepted in the spring, marking Tower’s largest incoming class since 2001.
Cap and Gown was the most bickered eating club, with 90 bickerees discussed and accepting four seniors and eight juniors, 13 percent of their bickerees.
Assistant Audience editor and senior News writer Justus Wilhoit ’26 is a member of the Cap and Gown Club and has recused himself from reporting on the club.
Cannon Dial Elm Club had 26 bickerees and only accepted six new members, yielding a 23.1 percent acceptance rate. The ‘Prince’ was unable to attain class year information.
Ivy Club accepted 6 of its 35 bickerees this fall. Fall acceptance rate was at 17.1 percent, whereas spring was 26.8 percent.
Higher demand from the Class of 2026’s large size combined with limited available spots resulted in decreasing acceptance rates for most clubs. Tower’s fall bicker had an acceptance rate of 50 percent, lower than its 59.35 percent acceptance rate in the spring. Cap and Gown fall bicker had an acceptance rate of 13.3 percent, lower than its acceptance rate of 27.8 percent in the spring.
As Princeton continues to expand its class sizes, it is unclear whether eating clubs will adjust to accommodate more members, or if membership will simply become more competitive.
Justus Wilhoit is a senior News writer and an assistant Audience editor for the ‘Prince.’
Justin Tam is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ from Edison, New Jersey.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Here at Princeton, our eating clubs have big secrets. Buried deep in the records of the eating clubs are their demographics — which these clubs have avoided releasing. Other writers have argued that the eating clubs are elitist — with the most egregious example, Ivy, using socioeconomic markers such as one’s high school or parentage to make decisions, according to bicker cards leaked in 2017.
But without comprehensive data, it’s been difficult to hold these clubs accountable — it’s hard to challenge inequities without statistics. At the same time, a lack of information limits students’ freedom to make informed choices about which eating club to join. To solve these problems, eating clubs should report their demographics, alongside written descriptions about patterns in these demographics.
Not a single club reports their demographic data. However, in 2018, the University announced that eating club presidents have access to this data. I suspect that a major reason for this is the fact that, well, eating clubs are not diverse — the ‘Prince’ 2024 Senior Survey shows concerning estimates.
This is worse for some clubs than others: from crosstabs data, about 75 percent of Tiger Inn identifies as only white (compared to half of respondents in general). However, a lack of racial representation is a problem for eating clubs in general — while around 80 percent of white students are in eating clubs, a mere 57.5 percent of Black students are.
The economic data is disastrous as well, according to our numbers. Households with annual incomes over 500 thousand dollars are in the top 2 percent of the American population. For seniors who weren’t in a club, around 5 percent are from these households. For seniors in general, this number was 12 percent. For seniors in Ivy Club, this was a whopping 39 percent.
These are estimates, of course. The Senior Survey samples consist of about a third of each clubs’ graduating class. In addition, there may be some selection bias. But if an eating club disagrees with this data, it should feel free to publish its own demographic information.
Alongside statistics, clubs such as TI and Ivy should publish written statements to explain why their demographics are so different from the University average. This process of self-evaluation is essential in keeping these clubs accountable. The awkwardness of defending certain statistics could convince clubs to admit in a more equitable manner.
In selecting an eating club, students have a legitimate interest in joining a diverse group. After all, people want to work in diverse workplaces and live in a diverse nation. More information cannot hurt — it would allow people to make the most educated choices possible. Most Princetonians wish this information was available — in 2016, 69 percent of undergraduates voted in favor of a USG referendum to release demographics.
But the Interclub Council (ICC), consisting of the eating club presidents, refused, claiming at the time that demographics are private, personal information. This makes no sense. There are around 200 students in each club — it is impossible to make conclusions about individual members from demographic information.
It’s been almost a decade since then, and this referendum has died. It is time to revive this proposal — this time, from the bottom up. As students, we have much more bargaining power than we often realize.
There is an impressive record of successful, student-led movements to influence reforms on the Street. At the start of the 1900s, a substantial portion of students who sought to join an eating club were not given a spot at a single club. Due to the elitist nature of bicker, this impacted ethnic and religious minorities the most.
In response, students organized. In 1949, around 80 percent of Princeton sophomores signed a petition to not bicker unless all students got a bid — and they were successful.
In the fall of 2025, we can start a similar petition to reject clubs that are not transparent about their demographics. Of course, it would be rather difficult to gather 80% of the sophomores — but even a smaller protest could swing some clubs towards releasing their information. In particular, clubs with diverse demographics, such as Quad, could have a lot to gain from implementing such a change.
Change can happen from within, too. Members of an eating club, who feel compelled to make their clubs more diverse, should push their clubs to publish demographic information. At the least, eating clubs should hold internal referenda about whether or not to publish demographic data —  I suspect some of the more progressive clubs would support such a proposal.
When our institutions, whether the USG or the ICC, fail to look out for us, we have the chance to make changes for our own sake. That is the nature of the democratic process — empowering the people. The Street is the center of Princeton's social life, and as a result, we all have a stake in this matter. The eating clubs should say who sits at the table.Raf Basas (he/him/his) is a first-year Opinion columnist from Elk Grove, Calif. intending to major in English, Politics, or SPIA. He can be reached at rb4078[at]princeton.edu or @raf.basas on Instagram. His column, “Out of the Ivory Tower,” runs every two weeks on Tuesday. All of his columns can be read here.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.1,193 sophomores,  80 percent of the Class of 2026,  participated in this year’s Street Week, with 66 percent double-bickering. As in years past, Bicker and its merits were a source of contention among the student body. We asked our columnists to reflect on Street Week 2024 and Bicker, more generally.
For the next round of Bicker, ditch the ICC mechanism
By Christopher Lidard, Technology Columnist
Algorithms don’t care about you — through the most recent iteration of Bicker, countless members of the Class of 2026 have felt the implications of that fact. With the most recent troubles with the ICC website’s automation of the eating club invitation system, what was originally invented to simplify the convoluted process of club admission and bickeree preferences has unnecessarily gamified the Bicker process and left bickering only as a backup to selective sign-in.
Rather than a human-centered process that can create leeway for special circumstances or catch errors, the ICC Bicker system puts club placement in the hands of error-prone and unaccountable spreadsheet acrobatics. With unpredicted design flaws, such as the inability to handle the Friday morning traffic surge or arbitrarily requiring only two sign-in clubs to be ranked, the automated process brings much more harm than good and needs to be thoroughly reevaluated, if not overthrown.
Prospect Avenue and members of the ICC should reevaluate its usage of such an opaque and fallible program. Moving towards a manual club admission system, where invitations are not algorithmically arbitrated, would be one of the first steps to redeeming the Bicker process from its inaccuracies.
Christopher Lidard is a Technology Columnist, a junior majoring in Computer Science with a policy emphasis, and a member of Terrace Club. He can be reached at clidard@princeton.edu.
Having an “in” doesn’t always make bicker easier
By Sarah Park, Contributing Columnist
Bicker, as a selective process, is inherently and inevitably biased. For some, however, that comes as a relief. Many students spend their time in the same clubs, on the same sports teams, or part of Greek life leading up to the time they bicker. Surrounded by similar people, potentially part of the same few eating clubs, underclass students naturally want to end up in the same eating club as their peers.
However, when expectations fall short of reality, the emotional stress of Bicker can be all the more taxing for students who are a member of these groups. The idea of being hosed when getting into a club felt like a given can feel like rejection from the people closest to you, even when others say otherwise. The perceived social isolation of not being at the same level or as well-liked as peers can be worse for students who were accustomed to a tightly-knit, well-connected community in their college experience thus far.
But ultimately, what Courtney Harrison ’26 says remains true: “Social standing doesn’t speak to how you are as a person and your character … What’s important in being at this university and at any university is choosing people that really see you as you generally are.”
Sarah Park is a first-year intending to pursue a major in Comparative Literature. She is from Manila, Philippines, and can be reached at sarahpark@princeton.edu.
With a growing student body, Bicker makes more and more sense.
By Christofer Robles, Community Opinion Editor
Princeton sophomores want to bicker, that much is clear. But littered in this paper, you will find opinions that call for abolishing and ending Bicker, suggesting their cultures are merely “defined by who they exclude.” Such indictments are not wholly unfounded: Bicker has been used by some as a vehicle for classism and antisemitism. But are a majority of today’s sophomores who participate in Street Week just morally bankrupt? Of course not.
The Class of 2026 was the first class admitted under the University’s plan of a four-year expansion of undergraduate enrollment. And as evidenced by their interest in eating clubs, many of these Princeton students want to join a culled community of peers, whether or not that is a Bicker or a sign-in club. This growing student body interested in eating clubs necessitates a strong commitment to a better Bicker that is defined by who it includes.
Every club on Prospect has an identity — Bicker just makes that identity intentional. With so many more students on Princeton’s campus, it is ever more important that clubs have the agency to choose who defines theirs. Rather than relying on games weaponizing free-time — like that of Charter’s selective sign-in — or filling up spots with students who may form internal cliques, anyway, Bicker allows its members to meet, converse, and engage with interested bickerees. Ultimately, Bicker allows for informed decisions and rejections that protect the well-being of the club’s members. So, while Bicker may have a troubled past and sign-in clubs are here to stay, its detractors cannot discount Bicker’s informed narrowing down of an ever-growing pool of interested sophomores.
Christofer Robles is the Community Opinion editor and is a member of the illustrious Cap & Gown Club. He can be reached at cdrobles@princeton.edu or cdjrobles on X.
It’s time to bicker—but maybe not for 18 hours
By Siyeon Lee, Assistant Opinion Editor
What can a Princeton student accomplish in 18 hours of their life? Conduct a striking experiment on the unexplored areas of quantum physics or write a deeply introspective paper on 19th century philosophy, perhaps? How about spending every second of it on the streets of Prospect Avenue, all for the slim chance of bickering into one of Princeton’s 11 eating clubs?
Apart from the plethora of issues Princeton’s Bicker system carries — from the elitist gamification of social life to allegations of classist elitism — we need to reflect on the suffocating amount of time a prospective member must invest into showing interest for a club. The most recent iteration of Bicker at Ivy, for example, where each prospective member must interview with 10 of its members, involved over six three-hour time slots spanning through the week. This obviously doesn’t mean that every prospective member attended all six of Ivy’s possible Bicker sessions, but considering the abundance of other Street Week events of similar lengths, 10 conversations at one club can be more than burdensome.
When one of the most pressing concerns that pervade Princeton’s campus is the stress and rigor that debilitates its students’ mental health, the last thing that should take up a crippling portion of their weekday is a Bicker activity. This is not to say that those said activities are unimportant — but rather, that they need to be structured with more caution, efficiency, and intention throughout a longer span of time.
With better management of their time-consuming Bicker process, eating clubs have the potential to build meaningful, reparative, and tight-knit communities all bound by a shared camaraderie. Let’s not make it more taxing of an activity than it needs to be.
Siyeon Lee is a first-year from Seoul, South Korea intending to major in History. She is an assistant Opinion editor at the ‘Prince’ and can be reached at siyeonlee@princeton.edu, or @siyeonish on Instagram.
Cloister remains unsinkable… for now
By Wynne Conger, Associate Opinion Editor
At long last, the much-awaited confirmation has arrived: Cloister’s doors will remain open due to a successful Bicker season, advertising streak, and a remarkably lucrative fundraising campaign. However, members should not ease up just yet: in order to ensure the continued survival of Prospect Avenue’s smallest eating club, Cloister must continue to pursue rigorous efforts to rebrand the club as a desirable location for new members in the long run.
Luckily, the concerns of Cloister’s upperclass students were assuaged. The effective recruitment of 103 new members has been a relief for many: members accredit this success both in part to “unprecedented show of [financial] support” and a strong advertising push. The club reportedly exerted great efforts to promote Cloister’s reputation as a “wholesome friend group,” while simultaneously disassociating from its historical reputation of being “an old boys club … for ‘floaters and boaters.’”
However, Cloister isn’t out of the woods just yet. Not only is the club no stranger to risks of dissolution, but many of the newly recruited members did not rank Cloister as their top choice. Although many of the current members remain unperturbed by the state of the club, the threat of going underwater remains present. In order to maintain membership levels, sustain the legacy of the club, and alleviate the concerns of underclass students, Cloister must persist in rebranding its current image and reviving the club as a sought-after Street Week stop.
Wynne Conger is a first-year and prospective SPIA major from Bryn Mawr, Pa. She is an associate Opinion editor and can be reached by email at wc2918@princeton.edu
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Street Week 2025 kicked off on Sunday, Jan. 26 with clubs beginning to host events for prospective members. Building on the increased sophomore participation seen last year among the Class of 2026, the Class of 2027 is expected to continue this upward trend in participation in Street Week activities.
Higher participation has expanded Street Week festivities, but club spots remain limited, lowering acceptance rates.
During Street Week, which usually occurs in late January and early February, eating clubs hold events to recruit new members. Cannon Dial Elm, Cap and Gown, Cottage, Ivy, Tiger Inn (TI), and Tower Clubs conduct a selective membership process called “bicker,” whereas Charter, Cloister Inn, Colonial, Quadrangle, and Terrace Clubs allow students to sign in and join based on various lottery systems.
During bicker, which takes place over three days, sophomores, juniors, and seniors meet current members in various clubs through a series of formal and informal conversations. This is followed by member or committee discussions that determine which students each club accepts.
“We’re expecting similar numbers to last year,” Vincent Jiang '25, President of the Interclub Council (ICC), said in an interview with The Daily Princetonian this past November.
Historic firsts occurred last Street Week:
Tower accepted 165 bickerees in 2024, marking its largest class since at least 2001.
TI had the lowest acceptance rate of all 11 clubs, making it the most selective bicker club on the street, narrowly edging out Ivy. This is the first time TI has held this distinction since double bicker was established for all Bicker clubs in 2017. Double bicker allows students to bicker two different eating clubs in one cycle.
For the first time since at least 2001, more students bickered TI than Cap and Gown.
Nearly 80 percent of the Class of 2026 took part in Street Week last year, the largest number of sophomore participants the ICC has seen in the past decade. Higher participation has resulted in both sign-in and bicker clubs offering more opportunities for students to get to know current members and insight into the culture of each club during Street Week. There are 46 Street Week events this semester.
&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;img src="https://public.flourish.studio/visualisation/21352401/thumbnail" width="100%" alt="chart visualization" /&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;Changes during Street Week 2025
These decreasing acceptance rates have prompted the ICC, composed of the eleven undergraduate eating club presidents, to assess how to make Street Week more accommodating for more prospective members.
Charter Club has undergone notable changes to their selective sign-in process.
Charter is the only eating club that utilizes a selective sign-in process, in which points are awarded to prospective members when they demonstrate interest in the club by attending events.
During the inaugural sophomore eating club panel held by the ICC, former Charter Club President Anna Johns ’25 announced that while Charter will hold 14 point-earning opportunities as they have done historically, for the first time, the eating club will cap the number of points an individual can receive at nine.
“We hope that what this will do is reduce some pressure, you don’t have to go to all 14 events, because we stop counting at nine,” Johns said.
Charter’s process is non-evaluative, so if more students get nine points and rank Charter first than there is space for in the club, membership will be selected via a lottery.
The change comes after Charter’s process was criticized last year by students who were left disappointed after ranking Charter as their first-choice club and attending at least 12 of 14 point opportunities, only to be denied membership.
The ICC is also hoping to ensure everyone is matched into an eating club, a goal initially proposed by the former ICC and Charter Club President Mia Beams ’24. Last year, the ICC’s computer system did not place a small number of students into a club.
“We are looking to require every potential member to rank all the sign-in clubs to make sure that we get 100 percent placements,” Jiang said. In previous years, students only had to rank two sign-ins in addition to any clubs they may have bickered.
The Group Sign-In feature, which allows a group of friends to sign into a club together, also serves as an option for bickerees.
This option is not frequently utilized. In a statement to the ‘Prince’, the ICC reported that during Street Week 2024, a total of five groups were created, with 25 students opting to sign in as part of a group.
Registration for Spring Street Week 2025 opened on Sunday, Jan. 26 at noon. Selective Club choices must be made by Saturday, Feb. 1 at noon.
Bicker will be held from Sunday, Feb. 2 through Tuesday, Feb. 4.
Students can rank their club preferences starting on Tuesday, Feb. 4 at 8 p.m. and no later than Thursday, Feb. 6 at 8 p.m. Club decisions will be available on Friday, Feb. 7 at 10 a.m.
Justus Wilhoit is an associate Audience editor and senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Across Lake Carnegie, a new eatery called Meadows Cafe recently opened inside the new graduate housing complex, Meadows Apartments. Open daily from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., the cafe offers a wide range of drinks, snacks, sandwiches, and sweets. As a University-run store, it accepts Dining Points as a form of payment. But is it worth the trek beyond Carnegie Lake, via foot or a new TigerTransit stop?
To find out, I visited on a bright and sunny Tuesday afternoon. From my class in Aaron Burr Hall all the way at the other end of Washington Street, it was about a 20-minute walk down to the water and another 10-minute walk across the bridge and into the building complex. If someone wanted to talk a little less during the trek and timed it right, the bus would be much faster, as would a bike — although the bike ride home would be all uphill. Without much signage or architectural distinction, I found it difficult to locate the cafe, but I eventually came across it.
Once inside, I surveyed the food. With an airy, modern interior and a display case of sample sandwiches and pastries, the cafe felt akin to a Starbucks. Although the online menu only displayed a few items, there was actually a wide array of options. Not only was there a stand of chips and other savory snacks, among other pre-packaged items, but there was also a freezer with Häagen-Dazs ice cream and an assortment of frozen meals.
For drinks, Meadows Cafe has any kind of coffee, latte, or espresso you would see at any other coffee shop, all sourced from illy Coffee At Earth’s End, a coffee and cigar shop on Spring Street and a block off of Nassau Street. In addition to these traditional choices, they offer four specialty drinks: peaches and cream tempesta (a milky coffee drink with peach syrup), berry chia smoothie, orange aria cold brew, and almond rose caffe latte.
I decided to try an iced version of the almond rose latte, which is also offered at illy. The drink contains espresso mixed with milk and pumps of rose and almond syrup. The rose flavor balanced out the notes of almond very well, ensuring the latte wasn’t overly nutty, and the strong, bitter espresso came through in the aftertaste. Its complex flavor profile made it unlike other lattes I’ve had before, and I would definitely try it again.
In terms of hot food and pastries, the options were just as extensive as the drinks. They offer breakfast pastries like bagels, sandwiches, scones, danishes, muffins, and croissants, as well as desserts like fruit tart and cookies. For lunch, they offer cold sandwiches, paninis, and salads — all of which are about $10 or less. I chose the double-chocolate muffin, which wasn’t as big as the mega-muffins you can find in the Choi Dining Hall, but it was still a hefty size nonetheless. The muffin was rich, moist, and dense, with a light, springy crumb. Paired with the latte, I felt as though I was having the most decadent afternoon snack on campus.
The cafe has many seats both inside and outside. Tall, floor-to-ceiling windows create a feeling of openness. It’s located directly across from a Meadows Apartments community center, where residents of the complex can gather. Outside, I saw people of all ages sitting in groups of two or three, chatting over coffees or tirelessly typing side-by-side.
Compared to other cafes on campus, like the Tiger Tea Room in Firestone Library or the Chancellor Green Cafe in East Pyne Hall, Meadows Cafe seemed to have a wider variety of high-quality foods that feel unique to this location. Although not necessarily better than somewhere you could go on Nassau Street, if you find yourself down near Carnegie Lake or willing to walk a bit further, try going to Princeton University’s newest coffee shop, Meadows Cafe.
Lulu Pettit is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for The Prospect from the suburbs of Philadelphia, Pa.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Access to the Towpath and the other side of Carnegie Lake may be a bridge too far for students this fall as the bridge closest to campus closes due to construction.
The New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT) will replace the span of Washington Road Bridge that crosses the D&R Canal this fall, according to an advisory issued on July 20. The portion of the bridge over Lake Carnegie will be unaffected. After a year marked by disruptions and detours due to major construction projects on and off campus, the bridge replacement signals more to come in the fall.
The “emergency” repair will entail a prolonged closure on Washington Road — a notoriously busy roadway connecting north and southbound traffic through campus. The project has already faced preliminary delays, with the start date pushed from July 21 to July 26. The road is now blocked off between Faculty Road and Tiger Lane, and will not be reopened until the project’s expected completion in October.
“It will affect some commutes,” wrote University media relations specialist Ahmad Rizvi in a statement sent to The Daily Princetonian. “But most staff traveling to campus from Route One access campus via the Alexander Road exit, not the Washington Road exit. Commuters are advised to access campus via Alexander Road or Harrison Road.”
According to Assistant Director of Athletics/Communications Chas Dorman, the construction will have no impact on Princeton rowing teams’ ability to train and compete on Lake Carnegie.
However, access to facilities used by the cross country and rowing teams will be affected, as they are located off Washington Road. The facilities will remain open and Dorman told the ‘Prince’ that Princeton athletics is working with Transportation and Parking Services to “provide the most up-to-date information to fans and visitors attending athletics events this fall.”
“We do encourage our fans to allow for extra time when arriving to events in the fall while the construction project continues,” he wrote.
The bridge was originally built in 1905 when the Millstone River was dammed to create Lake Carnegie. It now spans the river, connecting campus to the D&R Canal State Park and Towpath, which are used by students and community members for training and recreation.
A campus message from July 20 specified that access to the park and towpath will be maintained, but may be “limited at certain times as construction proceeds.”
According to Rizvi, the towpath will not be accessible via Washington Road but will be reachable from Alexander or Harrison Streets.
When asked how construction updates and related closures would be communicated to the University community, Rizvi noted that the Washington Bridge Closure is “not related to construction on campus” and directed the ‘Prince’ to the 511NJ website.
Tess Weinreich is an associate News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: the article has been updated to clarify that the bridge spanning Lake Carnegie will be unaffected by construction. It has also been updated with information about ways to access the towpath.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Sophomore Matteo Torres vividly remembers visiting Princeton as a middle schooler, though it wasn’t Nassau Hall or Blair Arch that caught his attention.
“We drove past the lake with the [crew] team practicing on it,” Torres said. “I said to my family that when I go to Princeton, I wanted to row.”
Torres joined the lightweight crew team by walking on rather than going through the traditional recruiting process. Despite finding a home in the boathouse months after his teammates, a large part of Torres’s Princeton life revolves around Lake Carnegie.
“This is my third year on the team, and I feel like I’ve been completely integrated into the team,” Torres said. “My teammates are some of my closest friends, and I can’t imagine my Princeton experience without them.”
Torres is a former News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
His path mirrors that of many Princeton student athletes who have taken up varsity sports after their first-year orientation. While these athletes may not be at the caliber of their recruited peers, they fill a crucial niche in the locker room — adding depth to the rosters of Princeton’s 38 varsity sports teams.
Around 18 percent of Princeton students play a Varsity sport, which is substantially more than peer institutions like Harvard at 11 percent, Stanford at 12 percent, and Brown at 13 percent. However, this figure includes walk-ons like those that are profiled here, and many of the other 80 percent or so of students have backgrounds playing sports. According to the 2027 Daily Princetonian Frosh Survey, 52.5 percent of incoming first-years took part in varsity athletics in high school.
No matter the sport, having competed at a high level in high school is a requirement to walk on. For example, the Princeton men’s swim and dive recruited vs. walk-on consideration is just 0.4 seconds apart in the 50 freestyle, roughly the same as the range across the Olympic finals this year.
Though Torres found his calling in the swimming pool in high school, he took to the water in a different way after arriving at Old Nassau.
“I was a swimmer in high school, so when I got to Princeton and was reintroduced to the idea of rowing, I had the athletic background to join.”
Much like Torres, junior goalkeeper for men’s soccer Sully Atkin knew he wanted to play at the Division I level from a young age. Atkin grew up playing for the Alexandria Soccer Association — one of the top programs in Virginia — and was in goal for a regional champion high school.
“In high school, I knew I wanted to play college soccer, but I also knew I really wanted to go to a really good academic school. So, I basically dual-tracked it,” Atkin told the ‘Prince.’ “[College soccer] seemed like something I might be able to do based on … the teams I was playing on.”
“[Princeton] said that they didn’t see me as part of the recruiting class, but they do have a walk-on process,” Atkin continued. “So, if I get into the school on my own, just send them an email, and then we can talk about a potential walk-on process.”
However, there’s wanting to play a college sport, and there’s the reality of making a college team. Princeton’s 38 varsity sports all compete at the Division I level and have racked up the most Ivy League championships of all schools in the storied conference over the last two decades. Due to such a high level of expectation for each sport and the lack of many openings, getting in is difficult.
“After I got in and committed to Princeton in April, I sent the coaches an email reintroducing myself and letting them know I got in, and [that] I’m still definitely interested in a potential walk-on process. And then they invited me to preseason,” Atkin said. “It was unclear when I first came whether or not I was on trial, or what the deal was.”
Now three years later, Atkin is a crucial part of the team.
“They contribute with their play on the field and with their character on and off the field,” Head Coach of Men’s Soccer James Barlow wrote to The Daily Princetonian in reference to walk-ons. “They have a voice, their opinions and thoughts are heard and respected, and they help make our culture better both on and off the field.  Some of our walk-ons have become very important team leaders.”
Princeton soccer has been at the core of Atkin’s Princeton experience ever since. “I've met some of my best friends on the team; I wouldn’t change a thing,” he shared.
Though Atkin didn’t know it at the time, his spot was secure upon arriving at campus for preseason as a first-year.
“For some players who we are able to watch and evaluate and get to know before they arrive to campus, we may know that they are good enough to be on the team, and we may offer them a roster spot for preseason,” Barlow wrote about players in Atkin’s position. “For others, we may offer them a chance to try out,” he added.
Torres arrived on campus in a very different context — his spot had yet to be earned.
“During the first week of class my freshman year, I attended an info session about walking on to the team and promptly started the process,” Torres said. “It was a two-month process of daily training and test workouts with the other potential walk-ons, where they made regular cuts until just a few were left.” Now, Torres is a rower through and through and lives with several of his teammates.
Outside of a cap of 120 players every four years for football, there are no set limits on Princeton recruiting. According to former Dean of Admissions Janet Rapelye, though, coaches and admissions officers often face pressure to limit the number of recruits due to the already small number of spots available in each incoming Princeton class. As such, walk-on athletes like Atkin and Torres play a valuable role by essentially freeing up recruiting spots and adding depth to varsity teams.
Though some teams like soccer use walk-ons to fill bench spots, where players rarely see extensive time on the field, the role of the walk-on can vary. In fact, walk-ons form the backbone of some Princeton teams.
Women’s rugby is currently competing in just their third season as a varsity sport.
“We wouldn’t have a team without our walk-ons — they have been the heartbeat of our program as we’ve transitioned into Varsity,” Head Coach of Women’s Rugby Josie Ziluca wrote to the ‘Prince.’
“The walk-on players provide different perspectives on how to approach challenges, which has our team prepared for many tests and trials along the road of their four year journey,” she added. “They also provide inspiration and confirmation to folks who are curious about rugby, providing examples of people learning the sport for the first time to earning a starting position in a NCAA Division I league.”
For women’s rugby, which hosts open walk-on tryouts every fall and invitational tryouts each spring to fill out their roster for the season, the confirmation that truly anybody is welcome is critical.
“There’s a playing position for every body type out there, and through the training and skill-set building in a safe, fun environment, you’ll learn a lot about yourself too,” Ziluca wrote.
Developing walk-ons to start — and star — on a Division I varsity team is difficult; students who were unfamiliar with the rules just a year before face opponents who were recruited to play at a high level. There have been growing pains as the Princeton rugby squad, which played at the club level just a few years ago, faces opponents like Dartmouth, who heavily recruit their full team.
But their start this year has proved that their player development model does in fact work. This past week, they notched their first varsity win over Bowdoin, ensuing a massive celebration and proving that walk-ons can indeed find success — even with only a select few recruits on the team.
Walk-ons play for the sake of playing.Through varsity sports, many of these athletes get to pursue their lifelong passions as a part of the centuries-long tradition of Princeton athletics. Little slack, however, is cut for these non-recruits.
“The expectations are exactly the same with the recruits and walk-ons, and the treatment is exactly the same,” Atkin said.
And getting walk-ons into playing form, despite their athletic background, is no easy task.
“It’s a monumental challenge to prepare a walk-on athlete to have the mindset, courage, and skill sets to safely play against teams with rosters full of recruited players,” Ziluca wrote. “But when walk-ons can commit themselves to controlling those items and show up to get better every day, amazing things happen for them.”
Correction: A previous version of this piece stated that 18 percent of Princeton’s student body was recruited athletes, but this number includes walk-ons as well.
Diego Uribe is a head Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Tate Hutchins is an associate Sports editor, staff Audience creator, and News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Each week, Sports and Data writers analyze recent athletic competitions to provide analysis and insight on the happenings of Princeton athletics and individual players across the 38 intercollegiate teams at Princeton. Whether they are record-breaking or day-to-day, statistics deliver information in concise ways and help inform fans who might have missed the action. Read past By the Numbers coverage here.
Princeton Tigers: Nov. 1–7
24 games and matches were played across 18 sports and nine U.S. states over the past two weeks. Of the 13 games where only one team came out on top, the Tigers won 61.5 percent of matches, slightly less than the 63.6 percent in last week’s games. Multiple-day meets and tournaments are counted individually for each day of the competition. Competitions with more than one event or individual results such as golf and cross country are not included in our win percentage.
This week, the Tigers won over three-fifths of their games. They broke even with home field advantage this past week, taking four of eight in New Jersey. The Tigers, however, excelled at playing on the road, losing only one of their five games away from Old Nassau, including volleyball’s impressive win in New Haven — more on that to come.
All bark no bite
Women’s volleyball broke one of the longest standing home-court undefeated streaks this weekend with a four-set victory over Yale. The Bulldogs had triumphed in 30 home games in a row until the Tigers strolled into New Haven, led by sophomore hitter Kamyrn Chaney and her 25 kills.
“This win definitely meant a lot to everyone — particularly because of Yale’s incredible winning streak,” junior middle blocker Lucia Scalamandre wrote to The Daily Princetonian. “A lot of the girls on the team, including me, have some bad memories of losses in that gym, so it was very important to win that specific game.”
“I think you could see our determination in the way we played and in the energy of the girls off the court as well,” she continued.
Full swing ahead
First-year women’s golfer Olivia Duan played her way into the Ivy League Player of the Month for October. Duan shot a program-low 63 at the Evie Odom Invitational to begin the month.
Exalted eight
Princeton women’s soccer, recent Ivy League regular season champions and hosts of this weekend’s conference tournament, boasts eight All-Ivy honorees this season. Seniors Lily Bryant, Tyler McCamey, and Heather MacNab join junior Pietra Tordin on the first team, and senior Ryann Brown, senior Kate Toomey, junior Drew Coomans, and sophomore Zoe Markesini earned second-team laurels.
Lee’s late-game lunacy
Star junior point guard Xaivian Lee scored 16 of his 27 points in the second-half in the Tigers come-from-behind 81–80 win over Iona in Jadwin Gym on Monday. Lee — who turned down the NBA Draft and transfer portal last year — sank two free throws with just over three seconds left to claim victory for the Tigers in their first game of the season.
Starting sharp
Men’s and women’s fencing open as No. 4 respectively in the US Coaches preseason poll ahead of their first competition on Nov. 17 in Philadelphia. Both teams of Tigers are coming off Ivy League Championships last spring and only trail Harvard, Columbia, and Notre Dame in the national rankings.
Senior épée Mike Bissinger wrote to the ‘Prince,’ “We’re feeling great. We picked up a lot of promising first-years this year, and they’re all showing great discipline at practice.”
On channeling last season’s momentum into the upcoming one, Bissinger referenced the graduating seniors from last year. “Channeling the incredible leadership and energy of the guys above me who graduated last year will be crucial. Although fencing is objectively individual, the captains play a huge role in boosting team morale in the face of tough losses.”
“It is also added motivation that we are ranked behind Columbia after we beat them last spring,” he noted.
Carnegie chaos at the chase
At the Princeton Chase this Sunday, the men’s heavyweight 8+ A boat shattered the previous course record on Lake Carnegie. The A boat topped a crew from 2012 by 15 seconds with a time of 12:10.95, finishing first for the day in the Tigers home race. The women’s lightweight 8+ A boat also set a course record with a 14:22.03, a full twelve seconds faster than ever before.
All in all, the Tigers had a winning week, posting a win percentage over 60 percent. From golf to rowing to volleyball, the Tigers notched many successes on the course and court and look to have a strong finish to the season in fall sports with Ivy League championships looming and a strong start to winter seasons. Check back next week to learn about all things Princeton Athletics — By The Numbers.
Harrison Blank is an assistant Sports editor at the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Five years ago, a columnist for The Daily Princetonian argued that first-year Writing Seminar should be pass/D/fail (PDF)-only. Then, when COVID-19 struck, his argument was tested: Princeton made Writing Seminar PDF-only. At the time of the policy change, a peer academic advisor remarked that the change would “[give] people a chance to actually learn what’s being taught” and a writing program professor said that he hoped the change would “encourage students to further experiment with their writing.” Despite compelling reasons to keep Writing Seminar PDF, Princeton went back to mandatory letter grades. But even after the pandemic, the first-year Princeton experience remains intensely stressful, and not all students are equally prepared for a Princeton workload upon matriculation. It’s time to reintroduce the PDF option for Writing Seminar.
The only course every Princeton student must take, Writing Seminar is a rigorous, 12-person course that allows students to work closely with their professors as they develop their writing skills to match Princeton’s high standards. Success in Writing Seminar sets you up for success in other classes. According to the Princeton Writing Program, part of the goal of first-year Writing Seminars is “to emphasize transferable skills in critical inquiry, argument, and research methods.” This makes it especially important that students feel empowered to succeed in Writing Seminar without the pressures of harsh grading.
However, there is significant variability in students’ preparation for an advanced writing class. Many students have little to no experience writing long-form research papers when they arrive at Princeton. This affects their performance in classes like Writing Sem: Research from Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis shows that personal background shapes students’ experience with college writing. This background tends is tied to family income: it has been well-documented that, due to educational resource scarcity, among other factors, students from lower-income backgrounds are significantly less likely to be at the same writing levels as their higher-income peers.
Although Writing Sem is meant to level the playing field for future years of college, Writing Sem itself is an unfair playing field because of students’ different prior preparation — and for many students, Writing Sem itself is their most stressful writing class. A PDF grading option could help reduce that stress differential between students who are already comfortable with writing research papers and students who aren’t.
As of now, all first-year Writing Seminars are non-PDF, meaning that they must be taken for a grade, A through F. Yet other colleges and universities, such as MIT and Swarthmore, have instituted programs that make students’ entire first semesters pass/fail, demonstrating that this is a feasible policy even at an academically rigorous institution. While Princeton does not have this policy, the University’s closest equivalent is allowing students to PDF up to four courses during their time at Princeton. But Writing Seminar is not among them, even though students’ first year is often their most academically stressful, and Writing Sem one of the most stressful experiences in it. Allowing students to PDF Writing Seminar would vastly reduce the amount of stress they face by decreasing some of the emphasis put on first-semester grades.
By reinstating the PDF option for Writing Seminar, students with less experience could still be exposed to and expected to produce novel, research-based writing without fear of being behind their peers and earning a grade that does drag down their GPA. The overall goal of the Writing Seminar would still be accomplished — all students would still be able to get up to Princeton writing standards through lessons and assignments.
Policies like those at MIT, Swarthmore, and Princeton during the pandemic clarify that implementing a PDF option for Writing Seminar would not be an unprecedented change. In fact, it would also help students acclimate to University life with less grade-related stress. The expressed goal of Writing Seminar is to teach students to write Princeton-caliber research papers. Allowing students to PDF the course wouldn’t inhibit this educational goal – it would allow students to achieve it with much less stress.
Davis Hobley is a columnist for the ‘Prince,’ and a member of the Class of 2027 and intends to major in Neuroscience. He hails from Rochester, Mich. and can be reached through his email (dh2172@princeton.edu) and personal Instagram (@davis_20.23).
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.For students working toward an A.B. degree at Princeton, the foreign language requirement is a core part of their undergraduate education. For those starting at the 101 level, the requirement constitutes an introduction to rigorous language study that will span at least three semesters of college. Though many students test out of intro courses and into intermediate or advanced-level courses, the language requirement ensures meaningful student engagement with a critical field of study.
However, many Princetonians cease language study after completing the core requirement. In light of a disturbing national trend of institutions of higher learning shifting away from foreign language programs, Princeton should seek to defend the value of language study, encouraging students to pursue advanced language study in multiple languages. Specifically, language classes taken beyond the requirement should have a pass/D/fail (PDF) option.
In the past decade, foreign language enrollments on the collegiate level have tumbled dramatically. In the half-decade between 2016 and 2021, enrollment declined by 17 percent nationally. This decline was only part of the more severe language enrollment decline of nearly 30 percent between 2009 and 2021. This downward trend has dramatically outstripped even the general decline in college enrollment. In all, 961 language programs have been eliminated nationally, approximately 8.2 percent of all programs at the University level.
Princeton must be cognizant of the practical implications of this decline in language study. The University’s robust language study options is a decreasingly common stance among U.S. institutions. From 2016 to 2021, universities have eliminated 172 German, 164 French, 105 Chinese, and 80 Arabic programs, two of which — Arabic and Chinese — are State Department critical languages. These languages are essential to recognizing and engaging with an increasingly multilingual and interconnected world. Students who study them grow capable of connecting culturally, acquiring knowledge of customs and values through academic work, and engaging beyond the circumscribed bounds of English knowledge abroad.
A cross-lingual connection does not merely pertain to going abroad but is incredibly important to engage with an increasingly diverse United States, where some 20 percent of Americans speak a language other than English at home. Thus, engaging as a multilingual American in an increasingly multilingual environment is incredibly important.
Beyond language study’s socio-political implications, Princetonians would be well-served by the opportunity to grow as critical thinkers and learners while studying a second or third language. Presently, the University maintains a high standard for language course rigor. This makes sense to compel students to engage deeply with the content, but those who have already proven their mastery of these skills should be able to engage with additional language courses in a less demanding manner.
Students who have already completed the University language requirement should be able to utilize the PDF option for introductory language courses. Providing this option would ensure that the bar to entry for any given language remains reasonable in light of the increased demands of study as an undergraduate career progresses. The PDF option would limit student concerns about the effects of language courses on their GPA, allaying the fears of students looking at both a highly competitive job market and graduate, law, and medical school admissions environment.
Expanding the availability of the PDF option will not undermine the rigor of introductory language courses. Students working toward fulfilling the undergraduate requirement would still be held to the same standards as before. Preserving the rigor of introductory courses is essential to ensuring a robust foundation for further study; the benefit of increased access ought not come at the expense of entering students. Having PDF students in the class will not affect the experience of students in their first language class, especially since these students have already demonstrated their commitment to the material by enrolling in the class.
Princeton seeks to accomplish a rather noble — and practical — objective by requiring students to study a single foreign language to proficiency. The University should follow this prerogative to its logical conclusion, increasing proficiency in multiple languages — it is both in line with its commitment to service and its fundamental mission as an institution of higher learning.
Aidan Gouley is a freshman from Fairfield, Conn. intending to major in Politics. He is a columnist at the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached by email at aidan.gouley@princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.Upperclass students, do you have a draw time at the 95th percentile of all draw groups where you can score one of the most spacious singles or a quad with private bedrooms? If not, you might want to read on to prepare yourself for upperclass room draw.
Upperclass student room draw will begin at 9:30 a.m. on April 11 with a two-person group taking their pick, and will end April 17. It is the last cohort of a several-week-long room draw process that began with independent students on April 1, followed by residential college draw, which takes place from April 2 to April 10.
We categorized each upperclass room currently on the available rooms list by specific room type, square footage, access to laundry, and a relative popularity score. For the popularity score, we used last year’s available rooms lists to estimate the percentile of each room, calculated as the fraction of all available upperclass rooms that were picked after the room at hand.
Unlike last year, drawing into Walker Hall is again an option for undergraduates. In a statement to The Daily Princetonian, the University wrote, “There will be no graduate students residing in Walker Hall during the 2025-26 Academic Year.”
While rooms won’t leave the official housing list, rooms definitely have the potential to be added. In a comment to the ‘Prince’, the University stated that the available rooms list undergoes “near-constant change as students accept or decline room contracts,” providing merit to last-minute research prior to a group’s draw time.
The ‘Prince’ found 16 different types of rooms available to upperclass residents this year.
Aside from the 423 singles available to upperclass students this year, the most prevalent room type was for two residents, with 136 doubles listed on the available rooms list. Doubles are also the most diverse of the upperclass housing options, with 20 percent having one room, 16 percent having two private bedrooms, 32 percent having three rooms, and 32 percent having a common room and a double bedroom.
Three-room doubles were the earliest-chosen rooms in the 2024 upperclass draw, with rooms chosen at the 74th percentile of room draw participants on average. In other words, these rooms were on average selected in the first 26 percent of all room selections. Singles and quingles — quads with four private bedrooms and a common room — were chosen on average at the 63rd percentile.
In the 2024 upperclass draw, groups wholly avoided both normal quads — quads with two double bedrooms and a common room — and triples, each being in the 12th and 19th percentile on average respectively. This may suggest that upperclassmen desire their own living space as they move into their second half of undergraduate residence.
Singles consistently offer the largest square footage per resident on average. 19 of the 20 largest rooms sorted by square footage per resident are singles. However, singles can also offer residents some of the smallest living areas with 16 of the 20 smallest rooms being singles.
The largest room of three or more occupants in terms of square footage per occupant is 1901 Hall 411, a three-room triple with around 280 square feet per person. The smallest is Walker Hall 312, with 119 square feet per resident — less than half of 1901 Hall 411. Interestingly, a single around this size would be at the 6th percentile of all single rooms in last year’s draw.
1901 Hall has the highest diversity of room types, with nine types of rooms available. Feinberg Hall has the least unique room types with eight quads and one six-person room available.
About a quarter of the total number of singles are in Scully Hall, the only upperclass residence hall south of Butler College and the future site of Hobson College. While less centrally located, Scully was the first hall to run out of rooms during last year’s draw, providing more evidence for a high preference towards single rooms.
Little Hall has the most sizable singles with an average of 214 square feet across its four singles. 1903 and Brown Halls have the smallest quads with an average square footage of around 520 and 530 square feet, respectively. Quads in Dod and Lockhart Halls are over 700 square feet on average.
Overall, each upperclass residence hall has its own considerations depending on an individual’s preferences on square footage, privacy among roommates, location, or laundry services. While a Dod quad or Scully single might be drawn within the first 10 percent of rooms, draw groups lower on the list can plan realistically to maximize their housing experience next year.
Vincent Etherton is a head Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Alexa Wingate is a head Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Grading is a subject of great mystery and concern at most schools, including Princeton, especially as finals season approaches and the end of the semester draws near. But conversations around grading reform are less prominent, and the Princeton community has yet to sufficiently grapple with the important questions of this debate. Are the systems we have in place conducive to student learning and growth — or are they harmful to those objectives? And do they constitute an accurate standard for assessing students’ academic progress and achievements (if such a standard is even possible)?
The grade point average (GPA), which aggregates a student’s grades across all of their coursework, is, by most accounts, an imperfect and flawed tool for investigating the aforementioned matters. Its ubiquity, unfortunately, isn’t diminishing, so we must revise it in order to better meet our educational goals of fostering an appreciation for (and understanding of) a diversity of disciplines, developing an open and critically discerning mind, and, yes, serving humanity. To accomplish this, we should contextualize Princeton’s grading benchmarks by providing median grades for each course alongside students’ earned grades on their transcripts. This method, also adopted at other colleges, will give a fuller account of a student’s academic circumstances, the nature of their coursework, and their relative successes, to clarify what may seem at times arbitrary and random.
Median grades put a student’s performance in a class in the context of the overall course’s performance. Their introduction would be a quick, effective way of allowing students themselves — plus employers and graduate school admissions offices — to see and compare the student’s achievements in their courses to those of their peers. Quite often, low or unusual grades can puzzle transcript reviewers — were they flukes or signs of poor work? Median grades, in tandem with corroborating documentation (e.g., on a family emergency or severe illness), can answer these doubts, noting how abnormal a student’s performance actually was. Reporting the contextual median is thus a safeguard against potential misinterpretation of a student’s grades and serves to aid both the student and those requesting their transcript.
This metric benefits Princetonians not only beyond the University, but also while they’re on campus. A ramification of contextualizing grades through medians is the encouragement of academic venturing; students who might’ve otherwise feared taking a course interesting to them — because of the chances of receiving a “bad” grade (lacking any supporting explanation) — might be more inclined to go ahead and take a “risk,” if their individual grade were contextualized. This may, as a result, reduce stress and anxiety levels surrounding grading, and help build an environment of learning for learning’s sake, rather than for the sole pursuit of a floating letter. Posting medians, then, would assist students in their journey of broad exploration, part of Princeton’s mission of bestowing a comprehensive liberal arts education.
There, too, is a rationale for relying on the median, instead of another measure of central tendency, i.e., the average. While all measures are fairly easy to collect — and indeed, many classes at Princeton gather such data or make them known to their students — the median describes the middle value of a frequency distribution of grades and is less likely to be highly skewed by outliers, as an average would be. To guarantee more accurate sample sizes, reporting medians would be mandatory for courses with, say, 10 or more students enrolled, and optional for those with under 10 students. This procedure wouldn’t apply, however, to departmental independent work, e.g., junior papers or the senior thesis, due to the personal character of those components. Classes taken Pass/D/Fail or “Audit” would be exempt as well. Below is a prototype:
Course Title  Grade   Median
Course #1       B+           A
Course #2       A-            A-
Course #3       A+          B+
Course #4       C             B-
This isn’t an outlandish or outrageous proposal, for we already recognize that it works. Institutions of higher education across the country, like Indiana University and the University of California, Berkeley, now track average or median grades — in fact, the former goes further, detailing the “percentage of students who are majors in the given course department,” the grade distributions per section, and so forth. Cornell University, as yet another example, currently uses a system of contextualized grading through the reporting of class medians on student transcripts, as has Dartmouth College since 1994.
The merits of medians don’t just accrue for students and transcript viewers, though — they also aid faculty members: recording them would enable Princeton instructors to tweak and adjust their courses, if necessary. For instance, a median grade far lower than in previous years’ iterations might not be a total warning sign, but a persistent trend of significantly decreasing median grades might indicate a need to change something about the course (or students’ quality of output). Medians would function, then, as another form of feedback on a course’s structuring, pacing, and elements — a kind of self-evaluation. And if faculty members had this data for all courses, they could check for and ensure consistency of grading across academic fields, thus monitoring for and controlling rampant grade inflation or wild fluctuations.
As Dartmouth has done, these median figures shouldn’t be publicly circulated (e.g., on the Registrar’s website) in order to deter students from attempting to game course selection and purposely pick “easier” classes. After all, the intent of implementing this design is to facilitate academic risk-taking, much like the present P/D/F policy, lessen the focus on the letter grade itself and place more emphasis on the fun and enjoyment of learning. The intellectual rewards of wrestling with, and eventually mastering, unfamiliar or difficult material should be more treasured than the final letter grade. Therefore, students should only have statistics about classes they’ve finished taking.
Of course, the transition to a contextual GPA may come with its own complications. The biggest foreseeable troubles are on the logistical front. For a case study, look no further than the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, which killed its contextual GPA in 2017, despite years of efforts towards launching such a system. The UNC administration concluded that adding extra columns to the transcript and revamping the registrar’s site would be infeasible, citing “technical challenges” and “prohibitive costs.” Still, for Princeton, an educational institution with ample resources, these shouldn’t be large issues — indeed, they pale in comparison to far more serious problems that have to be dealt with (e.g., the conversion of certificate programs to minors or campus construction).
Contextualizing the student GPA through median grades grants every stakeholder involved a win: students have improved access to information at their fingertips about their performance and are incentivized to engage in academic exploration and risk-taking; faculty can use the data to make modifications to, and prioritize consistency in, their courses; and employers and graduate school admissions committees have a fuller picture about students’ work in each course and the personal circumstances that reflect upon that work.
This humble suggestion ought to be merely the start of an important discussion about grading reform at Princeton — one which we can hope won’t cease anytime soon. Adopting contextual grading through class medians, as outlined above, will prove an excellent first step towards demystifying the student GPA and grading process at Princeton.
Henry Hsiao is a first-year contributing columnist and assistant Opinion editor from Princeton, N.J. He can be reached at henry.hsiao@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Pop star Daya and rapper NLE Choppa will headline Fall 2024 Lawnparties, which follows the first week of classes on Sunday, Sept. 8. The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) made the announcement via Instagram on Friday, Aug. 23.
The main stage festivities will kick off at 2 p.m. on Frist North Lawn, with a yet-to-be announced student opener playing until 2:25 p.m. Daya will take the stage at 2:45 p.m. for a 30-minute performance, and NLE Choppa will then conclude the show from 3:30 p.m. to 4:15 p.m.
The early announcement caught the student body by surprise, bypassing the typical season of intense speculation among students of who will headline the event.
“We’re striving to stay on top of things,” said Aum Dhruv ’27, a social committee member, “making it easier for people to plan for Lawnparties so working to release info earlier will hopefully help with that.”
Dhruv is a staff Audience creator for the Daily Princetonian.
This year’s Lawnparties will embrace a “fall festival” theme, reflecting the season of transition as students begin a new academic year, with an autumnal aesthetic. This is the second time Lawnparties has been accompanied by a theme, following the 2024 Spring Lawnparties’ “Tropic Like It’s Hot.”
“We wanted it to signify a calm yet exciting year ahead,” USG Social Committee Chair Enzo Kho ’26 explained.
This fall’s event will follow a Lawnparties last semester that was marked by turbulence on campus, when the concerts coincided with the beginnings of weeks long “Gaza Solidarity Encampment” protests.
The selection of both artists was intended to provide students a diverse musical lineup while staying within this year’s budget, according to Kho. Specifics of the setlists are not yet finalized.
Daya is a Grammy award-winning pop artist renowned for her chart-topping 2016 hits like “Hide Away” and “Don’t Let Me Down.” She performed at the University of Pennsylvania’s Spring Fling concert in March and at Duke University’s spring festival in 2022.
NLE Choppa, whose full name is Bryson LaShun Potts, is known for energetic rap tracks such as “SLUT ME OUT” and “Shotta Flow.” Like Lil Tecca, who headlined Lawnparties in the spring, Potts ascended to rap stardom as a teenager and is now 21 years old. In fall of 2023, Potts announced and completed a college tour that included 13 shows at universities across the country. This past spring, he continued the college circuit, performing at other schools, such as the University of Cincinnati and Indiana University. College is a prevalent theme in Potts’ music and branding, including in his 2023 single “College Girls,” and merch emblazoned with “NLE University.”
Alongside the performances, Campus Club will feature a variety of inflatable and lawn games for student enjoyment throughout the day.
Food offerings will include a mix of favorite items from previous Lawnparties, with the addition of new carnival-themed snacks to match the fall festival theme. Students can look forward to a selection of grab-and-go options and food trucks.
“Our goal is to always provide the students the best experience, going beyond what we’ve already done last semester,” Kho told the ‘Prince.’ “We wanted this first big event of the year [to be] memorable for the students.”
Alena Zhang is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
With the first week of class coming to a close, many students are looking forward to one of the most quintessential Princeton events of the semester — Lawnparties. However, walking around campus for the first time since the spring semester has left many students wondering, “Where are all the lawns we’re supposed to party on?”
In an interview with the Daily PrintsAnything, Priya Medd ’28 expressed both excitement and worry for her first Lawnparties.
“I already picked out a nice white dress, but now I’m worried that it’ll just get covered in mud and dust,” Medd explained. “Where is all the grass in the pictures they showed me during orientation?”
The ‘Prints’ sent out a staffer to search for this “grass,” but accidentally got barricaded in by new fences brandishing the phrase “Princeton Builds Access.”
Some students expressed relief that the venue had changed to a muddy swamp. Regina 1901-Laughlin ’27 shared how they were happy that their shoes would be ready to take on the new site.
“Last year, I went to Lawnparties with some new Sambas — they were covered in mud after,” she explained. “This year, I got some Golden Gooses to take on the soil — the perfect distressed shoes for this deeply distressed event.”
The Daily PrintsAnything also spoke with Lawnparties headliner Daya, who said that the University originally organized for her to perform in the Art Museum construction site on top of an excavator.
“I was confused because they sent me pictures of a dirt mound with the caption ‘Main Stage,’” she began. “They weren’t even planning on stopping construction during my performance.”
The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) plans for this fall’s Lawnparties to be the last held outside in the marshes near the Art Museum construction site. USG Social Chair J.D. Walz ’26 explained that budget cuts will move the event inside in the spring.
“Princeton students will be excited to hear that this spring’s Lawnparties will be held in the Choi Dining Hall away from the elements,” Walz explained. “We applied for additional funds to expand the lawn near the Wawa to accommodate the event, but our Student Activities Funding Engine request has been pending for 18 months.”
According to the “Rights, Rules, Responsibilities” section on Lawnparties, the “party” does not technically have to occur on a “lawn,” but the “lawn” should at least either be in view or accessible for photos. We at the Daily PrintsAnything do not know why there would be a section in “Rights, Rules, Responsibilities” about Lawnparties, but we do know that it is poorly written and it took us a few hours to figure out what they were trying to say.
Spencer Bauman is a co-head Humor editor. He is still trying to contact facilities to help get that one staffer out of the construction site fence prison. He can be reached at sbauman[at]princeton.edu.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.Seven committee chairs gave presentations and reports on their work at the weekly meeting of the Undergraduate Student Government (USG). Aum Dhruv ’27, Social Committee Chair, also confirmed that a headline act for Lawnparties has been selected, with the name of the performer to be announced on April 9.
Starting the meeting with his customary President’s Report, Enzo Kho ’26 told the Senate that he had attended a meeting with U-Councilor Luqmaan Bamba ’27 and Gil Joseph ’25 “about the international student experience.” Kho himself is from the Philippines. On Friday, the Davis International Center sent a message to international students on Friday, advising them to carry their I-94 forms and identification at all times.
Dhruv delivered the Social Committee’s presentation. While revealing that a decision for the headliner for Lawnparties has been made, he explained that the committee is working on how to address typical crowd control problems.
“This semester, we’re really focusing on creating a new fencing system,” Dhruv said. ”You saw crowding last semester, we want to do our best to mitigate that, so we’ve been working with PSafe (Princeton Public Safety) on those efforts.”
Anuj Krishnan ’27, Chair of the Undergraduate Student Life Committee (USLC), expressed that the USLC is currently focusing on two key priorities: “being a listening ear” and advocating for policy within Princeton, responding to changes in U.S. policy.
“I think that we really started the conversation there and hopefully ... we can continue to push the advocacy and get some results,” Krishnan explained.
Brian Mhando ’26, Chair of the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Committee, said that the committee recently held a town hall “addressing concerns regarding federal DEI policies. And generally, I heard that it was helpful for some students.”
“We’ve got to continue having those conversations, especially now,” he added.
Arosheny Puvanenthirarajah ’26, Chair of the Student Group Recognition Committee, outlined the need for clear, public criteria with regards to club membership and selectivity. Recently, an email was sent to all officers of University-recognized clubs instructing them to add language to their websites, affirming the openness of the clubs.
Associate Dean of Undergraduate Students Ian Deas, present at the USG meeting, explained that “the expectation is that clubs in the default be open to all [unless they have] compelling rationale [and] received exemption to be selective. We haven’t yet released those standards.”
When asked why the standards have not yet been released publicly, Deas did not directly answer the question, saying “we can talk more about this offline but ... this is in direct response to students.”
Connor Romberg ’27, Chair of the Academic Committee, plans to facilitate discussions on student concerns, particularly regarding final assessments and first-year Writing Seminars. He also said that an academic newsletter is upcoming to highlight departmental resources and faculty research. Romberg is a former assistant editor for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’
Chair of the Sustainability Committee, Sastha Tripathi ’28, announced an upcoming “Princeton Green Career Alumni Panel” on April 4 as an example of making sustainability accessible to students.
The Mental Health Committee Chair, Allen Nieva ’26, presented the committee’s work on promoting mental health awareness, working on preventative and remedial measures, and collaborating with student groups and administrators.
Chair of the Campus and Community Affairs (CCA) Committee Oscar Barrios ’27 also described collaborations with students and administrators. According to Barrios, the committee is working to provide more experiences such as recreational trips and local engagement initiatives for students.
Following the committee chair presentations, a motion was then passed to allow for a private executive committee, at which point the meeting was closed to the public, and media was asked to leave.
USG Meetings are open for all students to attend and are held on Sundays from 5–6 p.m. in Robertson Hall 016.
Andrew Arthur is a staff News writer from London, England and typically covers USG, CPUC, Princeton's institutional legacy and administrative matters.
Please send any corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.For the first time in two years, Princeton’s spring Lawnparties was not a washout. The biannual musical event hosted by the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) was held on Sunday, April 28 and marked the end of the spring semester. Throughout the day, students partied along Prospect Avenue and on Frist North Lawn, under sunny skies with temperatures that peaked at 79 degrees.
Lawnparties was mostly unaffected by the ongoing “Gaza Solidarity Encampment” occurring about 500 feet away from the main headliner on Frist North Lawn. While the majority of protesters left the sit-in for about 30 minutes to move to the fountain outside Robertson Hall, where many students were taking photos, around noon, protesters remained at the McCosh courtyard for the duration of the Lawnparties student opener and headliner.
The warm weather matched this year’s Lawnparties theme, “Tropic Like It’s Hot.” While a few students sported bucket hats, pool floaties, and especially bright colors, most students wore sundresses and preppy outfits, matching looks from previous Lawnparties.
Like most years, the day’s activities included parties hosted by the various eating clubs along Prospect Avenue, a student opening performance by Weatherboy on the main stage, and a finale with headliner Lil Tecca. The USG Social Committee hosted a Foam Party at Campus Club during the day, and students dyed green and blue from foam could be seen walking down the street.
However, the logistics traditional to Lawnparties were changed, particularly the wristbanding location, which is typically in McCosh courtyard. This year, wristbanding was moved to the backyard of Campus Club. In an email to the student body, USG Communications wrote, “As a friendly reminder, please remember that wristbanding will take place in the Campus Club Backyard. This decision was made in line with USG’s commitment to community safety and well-being and in consideration of the fact that today is an active day on campus.”
At the same time, there were calls to cancel Lawnparties due to the continuing “Gaza Solidarity Encampment” happening in McCosh courtyard. In the days leading up to Lawnparties, Princeton Israel Apartheid Divest (PIAD) called for USG to cancel the event in an email to residential college listservs. On Sunday, an email sent to residential college listservs with the display name “Encampment for Gaza” urged students to personally boycott Lawnparties in solidarity with the protest.
“Join us! Refuse to celebrate an institution that has violated our rights to freedom of speech, assembly, and protest,” the email read. “It is up to us to set the bar for our belief in the value of human life.”
During the festivities, protesters briefly moved to the fountain outside Robertson Hall, a popular spot where students gather to take pictures. They continued down Prospect Avenue, turning around near Tower Club. After circling around the corner of Prospect Avenue and Washington Road, the protesters returned to McCosh courtyard.
In the early afternoon, eating clubs held performances in advance of the headliner. The Cap and Gown Club, Cottage Club, Quadrangle Club, and Tiger Inn all hosted DJs. Tiger Inn drew a lively crowd, with students dancing and sitting along the wall that lines the front yard of the club. Cottage was also particularly busy, with the crowd stretching to the sidewalk within minutes of opening its DJ performance at 1:30 p.m.
Cannon Dial Elm Club, Tower Club, Ivy Club, Terrace Club, and Colonial Club all invited live bands to perform. Hippie Sabotage performed at Cannon, Mico was at Tower, Coco & Breezy was at Ivy, and both Trip Kissing and Iriespect were at Terrace. At Colonial, Between Friends performed from 1–2:30 p.m., bringing groups of students to the front lawn. The group played popular songs, including “iloveyou” and “Haircut,” as students swayed to the beat.
“Princeton, thank you for inviting us to come to your beautiful school,” the band said midway through the show.
The musical acts appeared to be a hit with partygoers.
“[Lawnparties is] like a music festival, but localized, and you feel community from it,” Sonia Balani said, a sophomore at Rutgers University visiting Princeton for the day with friends, in an interview with The Daily Princetonian. “I liked watching Between Friends, because we just sat on the lawn and didn’t have to be in a crowded place, and you’re just able to enjoy it.”
Between eating clubs, students had the opportunity to grab snacks and visit various food trucks, including Taco Bell, Nomad Pizza, and Rita’s Italian Ice and Pretzels. At Bendheim House, Chabad, the Center for Jewish Life (CJL), and the Alcohol Initiative partnered to create the world’s largest matzah pizza.
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ Rabbi Eitan Webb from the Chabad House wrote, “When the Chabad student board realized that Lawnparties coincided with Passover, they knew that they wanted to do something special.” Volunteers could be seen blowtorching the matzah pizza as students came by to grab pieces.
After the festivities on Prospect Avenue, the party moved to Frist North Lawn, where student opener Weatherboy performed. The group performed hits including “The Chain” by Fleetwood Mac, “Kyoto” by Phoebe Bridgers, and “You Oughta Know” by Alanis Morissette. The voice of lead singer Samara Samad ’25 filled the courtyard as she bounced around the stage.
“You guys have been a lovely crowd. Thanks so much for being out here,” she said to the audience toward the end of the performance.
“I think Lawnparties is great, the weather is great, and I love the student opener. I think they’re so good,” Melody Choi ’25 said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ “I’m very excited,” she said, about waiting to see Lil Tecca.
Once Weatherboy filed offstage, a DJ took their place to amp up the crowd for Lil Tecca. Yet, before the start of the headliner, Public Safety (PSAFE) requested that students take “two big steps back” from the front of the barricade to prevent students from being crushed against the barrier as they were for A$AP Ferg in fall 2021. Resounding sounds of disapproval rang from the crowd.
Alarm bells rang to signal the start of the show. A screen, accompanied by pre-recorded audio, announced the artist’s arrival.
“This is not a drill. I repeat, this is not a drill. This is your emergency broadcast system. Announcing the commencement of heaven on earth. These are your final moments of preparation. Please gather your belongings and make your way to the front,” the announcement said. Lil Tecca took to the stage slightly after 3:15 p.m. to the cheers of students.
Throughout the performance, students jumped, raised their hands to the beat, and sang lyrics as they recorded the performance.  Lil Tecca engaged onstage, jumping up and down and waving his arms as he sang. He rallied students with phrases like “turn that sh*t up” and “make some motherf**cking noise, Princeton.”
“Can we get a ‘we love you, Tecca?’” the artist asked, which received a powerful “We love you, Tecca,” from the crowd.
Between performances, the sound effects of air horns blared to announce new songs.
Throughout the performance, security continued to make its presence known. PSAFE officers stood on the barricades, holding up posters that said “Get Down” and requesting that students move back from the very front of the lawn.
At one point, Lil Tecca chimed in at the front-row fans.
“Take two steps back. We care,” he said between two of his songs.
Lil Tecca closed with one of his most popular hits, “Ransom.” Students shouted the lyrics and huddled together for the final song.
“Thank you for having me. Maybe one day I might get an invite to the frat party or something,” he joked before exiting the stage as students held their hands in heart shapes to the stage and yelled “Tecca” in a chorus.
Isabella Dail is a News contributor and head editor for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Students dance and cheer while watching headliners. Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian




 

NLE Choppa descends from stage to sing with concertgoers.Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian




 

Students enjoy Domino’s Pizza on the Frist north lawn before headliners perform.Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian




 

Students walk on Goheen Walk through balloon arch with autumnal colors in line with Lawnparties’ “fall festival” theme.Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian




 

PSAFE officers move barricades to block off Prospect Ave., where Lawnparties attendees traversed to grab University-provided snacks and view eating club performances.Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian




 

Students gather at Colonial to watch Tiffany Day perform ahead of the Lawnparties headliners.Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian




 

Students crowd against the barricade to view performances. The crowd was later asked to take a few steps back.Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian




 

Students line up for Nomad Pizza, one of the several food offerings on Prospect Ave. Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian
Head Copy Editor Nathan Beck contributed reporting.Twice a year, students swarm Prospect Avenue for the peak of the University’s social calendar: Lawnparties. Featuring food trucks and live music leading up to the USG-sponsored headliner, the biannual event is an essential part of the Princeton student experience.
To examine the history of Lawnparties, the Daily Princetonian combed through our archives to pull the list of acts, categorize their genre, and measure their popularity by looking at their monthly listeners. Furthermore, the ‘Prince’ found weather data for Lawnparties of years past to see how often rain falls on this momentous occasion, as it did last fall. This year’s headliner fits with the norm as a rap artist and the weather is expected to be warm, but rainy.

Our analysis dates back to Fall 2006, when an 18-year-old Rihanna took the stage in Quadrangle Club’s backyard. Since then, 30 additional artists have performed in a headlining capacity, with the exceptions of Spring 2021 and Spring 2020, which were canceled due to COVID-19, and Fall 2009, where there was no headliner.
Through Fall 2021, all Lawnparties performances were held in the backyard of Quadrangle Club, with the exception of Fall 2020’s virtual event. Due to construction for the new Engineering School & School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (ES & SEAS), the main performance was moved to the Frist North Lawn starting in Spring 2022. The last Lawnparties held in Quad’s backyard is remembered for its chaotic and dangerous pushing and shoving, which may be less of a concern in the larger Frist North Lawn.
Twelve of the 31 headlining acts we found were Hip-Hop/Rap artists as classified by Apple Music. Rock, R&B/Soul, Pop, and Alternative each had four artists, while three artists performed Electronic music. The genre with the longest drought is Rock — the last Rock artist to headline Lawnparties was Third Eye Blind in Fall 2012. Six of the last ten Lawnparties headliners have been Hip-Hop/Rap artists.
Who are the biggest names to have performed at Lawnparties? We looked at the number of monthly listeners each headliner has on Spotify to gauge their popularity. By this metric, Rihanna is far and away the most popular artist Princeton has hosted, with over 75 million monthly listeners — more than double each of the next two artists, Jason Derulo and Wiz Khalifa. The average number of monthly listeners Lawnparties headliners have is nearly 11.6 million — though the median is just 7.1 million, suggesting that Rihanna’s astronomical total raises the average.
The prospect of attracting higher-profile names to Lawnparties has entered the discussion surrounding a proposal by the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) — which funds, plans, and organizes Lawnparties — to raise student activity fees. “We had huge names. We had like Rihanna, I think we had Maroon 5. If we did truly last look at expanding the student activities fee in 2002, it would make sense that we were able to suddenly get much larger names. That’s trickled out over time,” USG President Stephen Daniels ’24 told the USG Senate in defense of the proposal. USG Treasurer Walker Penfield ’25 likewise listed better Lawnparties acts as a potential benefit of higher student activity fees in an op-ed for the ‘Prince.’
Penfield is a staff Humor writer for the ‘Prince.’
Waka Flocka Flame last had a song on the Billboard Hot 100 in 2012, 11 years ago.
Looking at the calendar, Spring Lawnparties has almost always fallen on the first Sunday of May. This pattern was broken last Spring, when it was moved to April 24, the last Sunday of April. This new trend will continue in 2023, with Waka Flocka Flame taking the stage on Sunday, April 30.
On the other hand, Fall Lawnparties usually takes place on the third Sunday of September. The COVID-19 pandemic changed this as well, as A$AP Ferg took the stage on the first Sunday of October and Hippocampus on September 11, the second Sunday of the month. Last fall’s Lawnparties was the earliest in the year Lawnparties have ever been held since at least 2006.
Weather can affect the Lawnparties experience, as students saw firsthand when Hippocampus performed amid clouds and rain last fall. Fall 2022’s Lawnparties was the first Fall Lawnparties to experience rain, as the four other Lawnparties to occur under rainclouds were Spring 2014, 2016, 2017, and 2019.
Across the 30 in-person Lawnparties we examined, the average high temperature on the big day was 72 degrees Fahrenheit. This ranged from a low of 50 degrees during Spring 2016’s Lawnparties to a sweltering 91 degrees in Fall 2008. Fall Lawnparties tended to be warmer than Spring Lawnparties; the Fall average high temperature was 78 degrees, while the average was just 65 degrees for Spring Lawnparties.
Another factor in Lawnparties’ weather is the presence of strong wind gusts. The average maximum wind speed on Lawnparties is 11.5 miles per hour, ranging from the fairly still Fall 2009 and Fall 2017, where wind speeds reached a high of just six miles per hour, to the gusty Spring 2007 and Spring 2014, where wind speeds hit a high of 21 and 20 miles per hour, respectively. Last Spring’s Lawnparties had the third-highest wind speeds at 18 miles per hour.
The National Weather Service predicts a chance of rain — at the time of publication, between 30 and 60 percent — for Sunday, increasing throughout the day. The high temperature is estimated to be 69 degrees — warmer than the Spring average.
Ryan Konarska is an associate Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Amid much anticipation, rapper Lil Tecca is set to headline Princeton’s Spring 2024 Lawnparties concert, announced to students via the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Instagram on Friday, April 19.
This year’s Lawnparties, which falls on Sunday, April 28, embraces a tropical theme: “Tropic Like It’s Hot.” The main stage festivities will kick off at 2 p.m. at Frist North Lawn, with the student opener, Weatherboy, performing at 2:30 p.m., followed by the headliner at 3:15 p.m.
Lil Tecca’s management has officially confirmed his appearance with the Social Committee, though specifics on his setlist are yet to be finalized. The rapper, whose given name is Tyler-Justin Anthony Sharpe, is 21 years old and hails from Queens, New York. He is known for his melodic flow and catchy hooks, and has garnered millions of views on TikTok with chart-topping tracks like “Ransom,” “Did It Again,” and “Love Me.” His unique style has firmly established him as a notable figure in contemporary hip-hop; he has over 20 million monthly listeners on Spotify at the time of publication.
Recently, Sharpe performed at the University of New Hampshire on Saturday, April 13. He was also set to headline spring 2024 concerts at Stony Brook University in New York and at nearby Seton Hall University, but canceled both appearances.
Student band Weatherboy was unable to open last semester due to unforeseen scheduling changes prompted by inclement weather. Band members include Michael Salama ’24, Samara Samad ’25, Nina Green ’24, and Paolo Montoya ’25.
“We’re super duper excited to perform, and we hope the students who are watching will enjoy it as much as we have been enjoying the preparation,” Salama said in an interview with The Daily Princetonian.
Extensive free food options will once again be available throughout the day leading up to the headliner event. Per usual, all dining halls will open at 9 a.m., and Tico’s Bagels will be available starting at 10 a.m. at the wristbanding station in McCosh Courtyard.
Grab-and-go food options, including campus dining fruit cups and Taco Bell, will be available starting at 11 a.m.; five food trucks, including Rita’s, Nomad Pizza, Tico’s, cheesecake on a stick, and a kosher food option, will open at 12 p.m. More water stations have been added this year to ensure attendees stay hydrated throughout the day.
Organizers, with the help of the Alcohol Initiative, are working to expand food options to make it more accessible for students with dietary restrictions. Efforts include providing gluten-free options and catering to various religious backgrounds, with plans underway to offer a kosher for Passover option — matzah pizza —  in collaboration with the Center for Jewish Life (CJL).
This year’s Lawnparties event falls during the eight-day Jewish holiday of Passover, during which many Jewish students on campus will be observing the holiday’s dietary rules.
In previous years, the Alcohol Initiative funded a number of Lawnparties activities and food options, but has scaled back this year following a USG budget increase in September that allowed USG to take on a larger share of the funding burden for Lawnparties.
This year’s Lawnparties organizers have also made changes to the event’s infrastructure. Additional enhancements planned include sound systems in certain areas like McCosh Courtyard and the SPIA fountain, where students typically take photos earlier in the day. Campus Club will also feature an array of attractions, from temporary tattoos to lawn games to a vintage photo booth.
Social Committee Chair Enzo Kho ’26 told the ‘Prince’ that the social committee is excited about “trying out a lot of things this semester.”
Alena Zhang is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.For the second semester in a row, Princeton’s Lawnparties — held on Sunday — was greeted with sunshine, bright blue skies, and temperatures in the low to mid seventies. Students flocked outside of Robertson Hall to splash in the SPIA fountain, danced outside the eating clubs lining Prospect Ave., and assembled on Frist North Lawn in support of this year’s guest performers.
Unlike other Lawnparties, the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Social Committee decided to invite two headliners this fall, singer-songwriter Daya and rapper NLE Choppa, rather than sticking to their usual lineup of a single headliner preceded by a student opener.
With this selection of two artists, USG intended to provide students with a diverse selection of music while staying within the budget, USG Social Chair Enzo Kho ’26 told The Daily Princetonian last month.
The student band Oh S*** Look Out was initially prepared to perform as an opener, but last Friday, USG and the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students (ODUS) connected them with the production company preparing the main stage to discuss “logistical challenges” the company had been facing. Kho said issues stemming from “delays in responses from some of the artists’ management [the headliners]” prevented them from being able to “accommodate another component.”
The student body had mixed feelings about this year’s format.
“I mean, I love Daya,” said Lily Gose ’25. “I think I’d barely heard of him [NLE Choppa] before and then I listened to some of his songs and I was like, cool. However, she noted that she preferred “laid back artists.”
“I really like how they appealed to multiple different music tastes,” said Samantha Handwerk ’26. “You have Daya, and you have NLE Choppa, so a wide variety where everyone gets a little something that they like.”
After Daya concluded her set, the audience was left waiting for NLE Choppa to come onstage. ODUS and USG planned to have the two headliners’ performances come to a hard stop at 4:50 p.m., but NLE Choppa did not come on stage until 4:17 p.m when he was originally scheduled to conclude his performance. This delay frustrated students and even led some to exit the lawn before he performed.
“It’s [Lawnparties] been good so far, except for this little pause,” Maaso Ortega ’26 told the ‘Prince’ around 4 p.m., rating the day a seven out of ten. “I’m going home to take a nap now,” he added.
For those who stayed, the concert’s enclosure ran out of water at approximately 4:10 p.m. before NLE Choppa took the stage. Students were not permitted to bring their own liquids into the Frist North lawn venue.
Seven of Princeton’s 11 eating clubs hosted separate musical guests between 1 p.m. and 2:30 p.m., offering students even more variety to the headliners. Cap and Gown Club hosted two bands, The Broken Vinyls and Arcy Drive, earlier in the day beginning at 12:15 p.m. Ivy Club, Colonial Club, Terrace Club, Tiger Inn, Tower Club, and Cottage Club were all also open for performances. Cannon Dial Elm Club remained open but did not host a performer.
Students told the ‘Prince’ they were pleasantly surprised by the artists Laundry Day, Bipolar Sunshine, and Tiffany Day, which performed respectively at Terrace, Tiger Inn, and Colonial. “I had never heard of them [Laundry Day] before and I ended up really loving their music,” said Sicile Naddeo-Gjergji ’26.
Naddeo-Gjergji said that she did not attend Lawnparties last spring as part of a pro-Palestine boycott. The spring’s festivities coincided with the 21-day “Gaza Solidarity Encampment” sit-in. “It’s nice to be back after a bit of an extended break and seeing everyone come together again,” she said. As an upperclassman, Naddeo-Gjergji also felt “a lot more relaxed because I know how to handle the Princeton workload and I’m letting myself have a bit of grace this year,” she said.
Looking ahead, students like Xaivian Lee ’26 gave the ‘Prince’ suggestions for future Lawnparties performers they would want to see grace the stage. “I’m gonna go against the grain here, I think they should get Dominic Fike for Lawnparties. I’m a big fan,” he said. “I think that would be a good ass vibe, especially when it’s nice outside … something you could experience either in the crowd or sitting further back on the lawn.”
Kho told the ‘Prince’ the USG Social Committee “was very pleased and happy with how smoothly most things went” throughout the day, adding that “while working with third parties and vendors brings its share of challenges, we handled them effectively.”
Megan Cameron is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ from New Windsor, N.Y.
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Two days away from Lawnparties, the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) has yet to announce a student opener. A long-held tradition for the concert event, a student ensemble performs an opening act for the celebrity guest(s), bringing a slice of Princeton’s art scene to the star-studded affair.
While the rest of the student body was left in anticipation, The Daily Princetonian heard a rumor: Oh S*** Look Out, a student band created just last year, would take the stage on Sunday.
The band confirmed to the ‘Prince’ they were set to perform. If that was the case, we wondered, why was their performance still being kept under wraps so close to Lawnparties?
Well, that’s because they may not be the opener.
According to the USG Social Committee, they are waiting to hear if their production vendor has the equipment the band requested. If the company cannot provide the equipment, it’s possible Oh S*** Look Out may no longer be the opener.
“There’s a possibility? That’s crazy!” said Samara Samad ’25, lead singer of the band.
It turns out the ‘Prince’ was the one to break the news to the band.
While the USG figures out who will actually open Lawnparties, which they anticipate revealing by Saturday afternoon, the ‘Prince’ caught up with three of the band’s members before they played a gig at Terrace on Thursday night to kick off the academic year. The interview delves into who Oh S*** Look Out are — namely, a rock band taking the eating club scene by storm made up of a group of friends who love to jam.
This interview has been lightly edited for clarity and concision.
The Daily Princetonian: Somebody from the USG was saying that there’s something happening with equipment that could make it difficult. So basically, the question I had for you guys is: did you request any weird or abnormal equipment?
Ashley Abramson ’25: Not at all. Just like drums and amps and microphones.
Samara Samad ’25: No funky stuff.
AA: Not any keys, not any winds. We are, like, the most basic, bare-bones band: two guitars, bass, drum, singers.
DP: What is everybody’s role in the band?
LS: Leah Shefferman [’27], drummer.
SS: Samara Samad, lead singer.
AA: Ashley Abramson, I play bass, and then Mason Hooks [’25] and Tait Oberg [’27] both play guitar.
DP: And the name of that band is?
AA: It's Oh S*** Look Out. Shortened to OSLO.
SS: If you had to shorten it, or like, censor it …
AA: It could just be like, “Oh [letter] S” and stars. [Oh S***]
SS: OSLO is kind of lame.
DP: No, OSLO’s cool. So, what is the origin story of this band?
AA: So, we’re all in the Princeton University Rock Ensemble (PURE) here; Samara is the former president, and it’s a very successful rock group on campus. People audition with lots of different types of instruments. The goal of the group is to bring people together who play rock instruments for the purpose of forming these independent bands or just like, play music and have fun.
A lot of times bands kind of form from that. You meet people who you vibe with, and we said, hey, we want to play some shows at the eating clubs or wherever, or we just like to play music together. Yeah, that’s kind of the origin of the band. It’s very simple.
DP: Are a lot of the previous ones that have headlined lawnparties from PURE?
OSLO: Oh, yeah.
SS: Maybe not all members, but a lot of them.
LS: And we played some gigs together, the five of us, last semester.
SS: Yeah, at eating clubs. So we played enough gigs together that we said, “Hey, this group is really fun. And let’s submit one of the videos from the eating clubs that our friends took on their iPhones and see if we can play at Lawnparties.”
DP: Have you ever played anything this big before? As big as Lawnparties?
AA: Samara has.
SS: I was in another band, in the last band [to perform at Lawnparties].
DP: What band was that?
SS: Weather Boy.
DP: So, how are you feeling about this Lawnparties? Are you excited?
SS: I’m really excited.
AA: I’m a little bit nervous. I’ve never headlined anything like this, and I’ve actually applied to be the Lawnparties headliner a couple times before, and I never thought that I would. I’m a senior now, and I kind of thought that my time had passed for that. So this was a really, really exciting turn of events.
DP: Are you all seniors?
LS: I’m a sophomore. Tait is also a sophomore.
SS: We’re seniors. I’m a senior. It’s really fun to just play with friends and have this experience. Like, it’s wonderful to be opening for these headliners, but it’s also just so great to be having beautiful, fun times with your friends. That’s essentially what it is. Regardless of crowds or what the setting is, it's just, you know, making music and having fun.
DP: What kind of music do you usually do?
LS:  Rock-oriented. Rock and jazz depending on the setting.
DP: Do you play any originals or mostly covers?
SS: Not in this band. Weather Boy, we did some originals. But this year, it’s a quick turnaround. This will be all covers, but in the future, originals would be fun too.
DP: Do you have a specific band memory that you look back on with fondness, or a crazy thing that happened to you guys, a story?
SS: Something always goes wrong.
AA: We’re dealing with so much stuff, and being in front of a lot of people.
I would say we were playing a gig at Cannon. And it was packed. It was really hot, it was really loud, it was really fun, it was exciting, and the vibes were great. And the guitarist, Mason, was playing, he’s absolutely shredding. He broke two of his strings. It just snapped. We didn’t have a backup guitar. And so, Mason runs from Cannon all the way back to his dorm — which was close to the UStore, so across campus — to grab a second guitar and then ran all the way back.
He came back sweating, and we were just improv-ing; we had another guitar, so we played some songs that we could play with one guitar, and they still sounded great, and we kept the crowd going. It was stressful, but it was exciting.
DP: Sounds like you all have experienced rolling with the punches.
SS: Yeah, it teaches you to be scrappy. Like, find solutions on the spot. Not only are we the musicians playing, but we’re also our own roadies; we’re moving the equipment, promoting, we’re doing all this stuff.
DP: Do you have a favorite song to play together?
AA: I really like playing Ohio.
LS: I was gonna say Ohio!
AA: It starts off really slow — very slow intro for almost a minute, and then it just builds, builds, builds. And Samara has this amazing belt voice. I think it builds so beautifully, and it’s got a great guitar riff. The drums are really fun. And the bass, of course. I mean, I love when I get a good bass line.
[indiscernible Terrace Club mumbles]
DP: You like Mamma Mia?!
AA: Rock covers of pop songs are always really fun.
DP: Can you give me any sneak peek of what you might be playing?
SS: Let’s just say it goes from pop to ...
AA: Absolute metal.
SS: We’re really doing a fun, diverse set because as the opener, we don’t have a lot of time. We don’t get to play a lot of songs.
DP: How many do you get?
SS: We’re playing for about 20 minutes. Normally, we’re used to playing between an hour and two hours, and we want to play songs that the crowd may vibe with regardless of their music taste.
DP: Do you have anything else you want to add that you want the Princeton student body to know about OSLO or yourselves?
SS: We’re just ready for a rocking year.
Editor’s note: Oh S*** Look Out will not perform at Lawnparties and the USG did forgo a student opener for the Fall 2024 Lawnparties.
Raphaela Gold is an associate Features editor and head Archives editor at the ‘Prince.’
Bryan Zhang is a head Copy editor and senior Puzzle constructor for the ‘Prince.’ He avidly avoids writing, except for today.Electronic music duo Loud Luxury will headline fall 2023 Lawnparties, with singer and producer Pheelz as a supporting act, according to an email to students from the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Social Committee on Sunday, Sept. 3.
The show will take place on the Frist North Lawn on Sunday, Sept. 10, the weekend after the first day of classes for the semester. The concert will also feature student opener Weatherboy, a band made up of Michael Salama ’24, Paolo Montoya ’25, Rohit Oomman ’24 and Samara Samad ’25.
Spring 2023 Lawnparties was headlined by rapper Waka Flocka Flame, and Fall 2022 Lawnparties by indie rock band Hippo Campus. Both performances battled rainy weather, which likely affected attendance.
Loud Luxury, a duo of electronic music artists and DJs Andrew Fedyk and Joe Depace, is best known for their 2017 hit “Body,” featuring Brando, which has just over a billion streams on Spotify. The song is seen as the duo’s breakthrough hit, reaching the top 10 in multiple countries. The duo won the Juno Award for Dance Recording of the Year in 2019. The group has 11,652,205 monthly listeners on Spotify as of the start of September 2023.
The group has performed at several similar events at other universities. They’re scheduled for an upcoming performance at Vanderbilt University on Sept. 29, and have previously performed at Western University, Cornell University, Emory University, UMass Amherst, and Tulane University.
In a survey conducted by USG for the 2019 Lawnparties Report, Loud Luxury was among the list of artists with more than two recommendations.
Loud Luxury’s selection as the Lawnparties headliner follows an activities fee increase from $45.50 to $95.50. USG President Stephen Daniels ’24 has previously noted Lawnparties headliners as something that could be improved with the help of the larger budget afforded by the fee increase.
“As we’ve seen with Lawnparties, we don’t really have the ability to expand funds and get the sort of headliners [that] students want and see their friends in other schools experiencing,” Daniels said at a USG meeting in Spring 2023.
The Fall 2023 Lawnparties will also see the introduction of a supporting act. Spring 2023 Lawnparties was originally slated to include Skeez as a supporting act, but he eventually dropped out of the lineup. Pheelz is a Nigerian musician with close to 3 million monthly listeners on Spotify as of September 2023.
In an interview with the Daily Princetonian, Salama shared that he and his band were very excited to be selected as the student openers for Lawnparties.
“We’ve played at some Lawnparties before but only at the clubs, so this is a great step up,” he said. The band, which formed towards the end of last semester, is a psychedelic rock group. Salama said they would be playing “classic and psychedelic rock covers of new pop songs.”
Nandini Krishnan is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ who usually covers the USG.
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: This article previously misstated the date of the Lawnparties announcement as Aug. 3. The correct date is Sept. 3. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Senate convened on Sunday, Sept. 29, focusing discussion on the breakdown of the Fall 2024 Lawnparties budget and raised questions for future budgets. The Senate also heard from a facilitator of the Princeton Gender Affinity Group about the transgender student experience and passed two student group event budgets.
4,404 wristbands were sold for Lawnparties this year, a record-high attendance. Total spending summed up to $279,768, just under the $280,000 budget. That budget included a contingency fund of $20,000 beyond what USG expected to spend, nearly all of which was spent.
“The budgetary philosophy we really have with these contingency payments is that they are for contingency,” said Treasurer Uma Fox ’26. “In the best case, you don't want to spend up to the $20,000.”
Social Chair Enzo Kho ’26 recommended that future Lawnparties should have a target spending of $260,000, a reduction from this year’s spendings.
Later in the meeting, facilitator of the Princeton Gender Affinity Group Aster Haviland ’26 spoke about the difficulties of being a transgender student at Princeton and reflected on what they heard at the Every Voice Conference on Sept. 20. Haviland discussed discrepancies in results from a 2022 University survey that found 9 percent of all students disagreed with the statement “I feel like I belong to the Princeton campus community,” while 31 percent of transgender and non-binary students disagreed.
Haviland further discussed other issues faced by transgender and non-binary students, such as professors using incorrect pronouns to refer to their students.
“I was in class with another trans student, a junior who had taken a course with the same professor before he transitioned. He was using a different name and had changed his pronouns,” Haviland said during their short speech. “The professor was clearly having a difficult time getting used to it … She kept using his dead name, and I told her, actually, I’m pretty sure he goes by this and she sort of just brushed it off.”
To make transgender and non-binary students feel more accepted at Princeton, Haviland proposed additional education for people in leadership positions and those who frequently interact with students.
Additionally, the meeting also saw budget approvals for events proposed by the Princeton Filipino Community and the Princeton Young Democratic Socialists of America (YDSA) both passed the Senate vote.
The Princeton Filipino Community will host a Halo-Halloween & Filipino Ivy League Conference in November, where students from Princeton and other Ivy League schools will participate in cultural workshops, hear from guest speakers, and watch performances.
The Young Democratic Socialists are hosting the Amazon Labor Union President Conner Spence along with another yet-to-be-named guest speaker on the labor movement and unionizing at Amazon.
USG meetings are open for all students to attend and are held on Sundays from 5–6 p.m. in Robertson Hall 016.
Devon Rudolph is a News contributor and a Sports contributor for the ‘Prince’ from Fairfax, Va.
Correction: A previous version of this article misstated that USG allocated $20,000 additional contingency funds beyond the $280,000 Lawnparties budget; in fact, the contingency funds were included within the total budget. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.For the third semester in a row, Lawnparties were marked by cloudy skies and sporadic rain. The student opener’s set was canceled due to the forecast and the concert schedule was moved up an hour the day of, but students still turned out for a full day of partying to celebrate the start of the semester.
Thunderstorms began in the morning, but the precipitation halted in the early afternoon, leaving enough time for a relatively rain-free day of festivities, including photos at the fountain in front of Robertson Hall, parties in the Eating Clubs on Prospect Avenue, and a headlining performance by EDM duo Loud Luxury, the first headliner in its genre.
Leading up to the main event in the late afternoon, various eating clubs hosted their own musical acts, including Crash Adams at Colonial Club, TREK at Tiger Inn, ZUEZUE at Cottage Club, Club Eat at Quadrangle Club, and Kaleena Zanders at Ivy Club. Strawberry Milk, the student band that opened for Spring 2022 Lawnparties headliner Flo Milli, played Tower Club. Terrace Club’s act also featured students in the classes of 2023 and 2024, with lead singer Kate Short ’23 taking center stage.
Zusha, a Hasidic folk/soul band from New York whose debut EP achieved No. 9 status on Billboard’s World Albums chart, performed under a tent at the Chabad BBQ in front of Bendheim House. The artist’s appearance was co-sponsored by the Alcohol Initiative, Gitty Webb, co-director of the Chabad House told The Daily Princetonian.
Cap and Gown Club hosted Emei, an artist with almost 1.5 million monthly Spotify listeners who gained internet fame in 2022 for her viral TikTok hit “Late to the Party.” She told a large crowd at Cap that she’d always wanted to play a show at the University because she was born at Princeton Medical Center.
The University also sponsored free food at various locations near the headliner stage. Nomad Pizza was stationed in the back of Campus Club, Rita’s Italian Ice in the front, and Taco Bell was in front of the Bendheim Center for Finance.
Weatherboy, the student rock band that was slated as the concert’s opener, also stayed home. According to an email to the student body from the Undergraduate Student Government at 9:45 p.m. on the night before the event, their set was canceled “due to uncertainties with the weather.”
"Weatherboy is definitely excited to perform in the future! Samara Samaad '25, a member of Weatherboy, wrote in a message to The Daily Princetonian "For now, we are going to keep practicing sets to grow together as a band, and we are looking to hopefully perform some Eating Club gigs in the meantime.
“I’m very disappointed that the student performers are not performing today,” Chloe Long ’26 said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ “I think that Princeton might just be a little bit cursed,” she added, referring to the rain, “but we’ll have a good time regardless.”
Sunday’s high temperature of 78 degrees fell exactly in line with fall Lawnparties’ average temperature since 2006. The temperature was cooler than previous years, however, with fall 2022 and 2023’s high temperatures being the lowest since fall 2014.
Lawnparties this year saw rain in the morning, but conditions cleared by noon. Rain on Lawnparties day is a relatively new phenomenon. It has only rained during the Lawnparties headliner four times in Princeton history, with three of these rain events occuring in the last four years. It did not rain during a fall Lawnparties until Fall 2022, when Hippo Campus performed, and it has rained during spring lawnparties on only three occasions — 2009, 2019, and 2023.
While concertgoers avoided rain in the afternoon, the evening saw torrential rain envelop the campus. Cannon Dial Elm Club, which had planned to hold a Lawnparties afterparty on its front lawn at 8 p.m., was forced to cancel its event.
“In an unexpected change of events, we have decided that we will be CLOSED tonight due to the storms outside so we can no longer have this event,” Cannon officers wrote in an email to the student body over Hoagie Mail.
Loud Luxury still had a supporting act — Pheelz, a producer who went onstage shortly after 3 p.m. He played the Jay-Z classic “Empire State of Mind,” subbing out the words ‘New York’ for ‘Princeton.’ Pheelz was initially supposed to go on stage at 4 p.m., but the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) sent out an email earlier in the day saying that doors were opening to the main stage at 2:30 p.m. and Pheelz was performing at 3 p.m.
Loud Luxury took the stage at about 4 p.m. The duo remixed a number of crowd favorites, including Taylor Swift’s “Love Story” and their own hit, “Body.”
Loud Luxury is Lawnparties’ first foray into dance music. Previously, most Lawnparties acts have been hip-hop or rap artists. Of the five lawnparties held since the COVID-19 pandemic, three have been hip-hop or rap artists.
Loud Luxury is the 11th-most popular artist to have performed at Lawnparties when measured by Spotify monthly listeners. Rihanna is by far the most popular act to have performed at Lawnparties, more than doubling the monthly listener count of the next most popular artist, Jason Derulo.
Although certain elements of the Lawnparties schedule were shifted due to weather, many concertgoers still spoke positively about their experience.
“Lawnparties is the glue that holds the student body together,” Stephen Bartell ’25 said.
Lawnparties was held on Sept. 10 on the Frist North Lawn.
Annie Rupertus is an associate News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Ryan Konarska is an associate Data editor and staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Students crowded Frist North Lawn this Sunday, weathering the second rainy Lawnparties this academic year. The conditions disrupted scheduled activities throughout the day, causing long lines at Ivy Club and an early closure at Tiger Inn. Skeez, the planned opener for headliner Waka Flocka Flame, was a no-show, leaving a DJ from Flame’s personnel to warm up the crowd. Student opener Ziff & Griff performed as scheduled.
Though the audience had dwindled by the late afternoon, the crowd on Frist North Lawn was dense in front of the stage. Dancing in tight areas led to at least one student attendee’s injury, eliciting a call from Flame to help the person trampled. Moshing at Lawnparties has resulted in safety issues before: in Fall 2021, one student was hurt during A$AP Ferg’s performance.
Even when equipped with umbrellas, ponchos and raincoats, attendees reported that the bad weather adversely affected their experience.
“It's a little sad with the rain,” said Christopher Caligiuri ’25.
“The rain is kind of just dampening the experience a little bit,” said Amayel Ka ’26.
When asked by The Daily Princetonian if she looked forward to Flame, Ka responded, “I’m going home.”
Others felt more positively, but noted a more chill vibe.
“It's obviously a bit more mild than in past years,” said Max Hines ’25. “But it seems like people are still having a good time.”
As the street flooded, festival favorites fell flat. Food trucks parked on Prospect Avenue opened at 12 p.m., but were under-attended compared to previous Lawnparties. Options included Taco Bell, Nomad Pizza, and Rita’s Italian Ice, as well as cheesecake on a stick, fresh mangos, and pretzels. There were also several water stations along the street.
Per tradition, eating clubs hosted their own entertainment. Ivy Club hosted singer-songwriter Kah-Lo, known for hits “Fake ID” and “Rinse & Repeat,” as well as club opener DJibouti. Tiger Inn and Cap and Gown Club followed the DJ trend, featuring Kaz and Geiger respectively. Other clubs hosted bands: Strawberry Milk performed at Tower Club, Weston Estate at Colonial Club, and Cat in the Wall at Quadrangle Club. Cannon Club brought the last call, hosting a PUID post-Lawnparties celebration at 9 p.m.
The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) also introduced some new features this year. The wristbanding stations offered TigerTale pins to students. Students were able to pose for photos in front of a Lawnparties banner. Additionally, pizza was provided near the main stage in the afternoon.
Of the new features, mid-concert pizza from Domino’s seemed especially popular — slices ran out in the first 15 minutes.
“The pizza in here is like a huge plus,” said Evan Chandran ’24. “It makes more sense staying than leaving to eat and come back.”
On the main stage, Ziff & Griff began their set at 3 p.m. with a remix-heavy playlist. Student backup dancers were an unadvertised surprise for attendees.
In the absence of Skeez, a DJ from Flame’s personnel came on to warm up the crowd prior to the headlining performance. Students didn’t seem to mind the substitution.
“I have no idea who Skeez is,” said Hines.
“There is another opener,” said Jenny Nwokeji ’25. “It's totally fine.”
According to USG Social Chair Avi Attar ’25, Skeez did not disclose a reason for his absence.
Headliner Flame took the stage around 4 p.m., performing his own hit songs “No Hands” and “Hard in Da Paint,” and covering crowd-pleasers such as Major Lazer and DJ Snake’s “Turn Down for What.”
“Where my ladies at?” Flame called to the audience at one point in the show. “Where my frat boys at?”
Izzy Jacobson is a staff News writer and Features contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Tess Weinreich is an associate News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Move In Day, Lawnparties, Freshman Orientation, and the First Day of Classes symbolize the start of the fall semester, not only for students, but also for Princeton’s Grounds team. The events’ toll on campus grounds and lawns necessitates maintenance to restore them to their green glory. The Daily Princetonian spoke to the Grounds team to learn more about the strategies and technologies integral in maintaining campus aesthetics.
Robert Staudt, Assistant Director of Campus Grounds, told the ‘Prince’ in an interview that the setup and takedown of major events requires the construction of tents, the arranging of chairs and tables, the insertion of rods into the ground, and vehicles driving over the lawn.
“That creates a lot more damage,” Staudt said, pointing out the ruts created by tires driving over the grass as a major source of lawn degradation.
Staudt also noted that the foot traffic that comes with these events causes damage. Every year, 3,000 to 4,000 people attend Princeton Lawnparties alone, damaging McCosh Courtyard, Frist North Lawn, and other high-traffic lawns on campus.
Move-in brings a slew of vehicles to campus as well.
“One car a day isn’t bad. It’s when it’s for [the] duration, it gets difficult,” Staudt said. “The cars did trample [the grass] because it was dry.”
Staud noted that Move In Day takes place at a time when the grass is particularly dry.
The area around Princeton is experiencing drought-like conditions after an “especially dry summer,” according to Staudt.
“It’s really the drought we’re trying to combat and get that grass to come back.”
To combat the dryness, Grounds’s main concern is irrigation. The Grounds team is introducing new technologies for irrigation — namely, adding additional hose bibbs that help expedite maintenance on campus. According to Staudt, hose bibbs allow for “water when we need it,” dispensing water for the ground only when necessary.
Staudt also said aerators, which “punch little holes in the ground,” allowing water and oxygen to get in.
Even before the fall semester events, the Grounds team worked all summer to recover from University events — namely Graduation and Reunions, which brought roughly 25,000 guests to Princeton’s campus — at the end of the spring semester.
“[Grounds does] a lot of overseeding, a lot of trying to get that lawn established back right after reunions and commencement activities. We’ll try and get the lawn and back and go through summer healthy and get ready for fall,” Staudt said.
As soon as the Grounds team gets the lawns reseeded and their annual fall cleanup finished, they complete this season’s planting, prioritizing asters, reblooming perennials, and flowers in fall colors among the evergreen textures that are a staple of Princeton landscaping.
Looking ahead to the winter, the Grounds team is preparing for inclement weather and prioritizing safety.
“We’ll get all our equipment ready for the snow. When it snows, we’ll have to be here 24/7 to get the campus back to clean and [as] safe conditions as possible during the winter season.”
Hallie Graham is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ from Nashville, Tenn. who typically covers campus facilities.
Mary Balid is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.For the second year in a row, Opening Exercises were held in front of Nassau Hall, rather than its traditional location of the University Chapel, signaling a historic change in the ceremony that marks the beginning of students’ academic careers.
Class expansion has caused additional changes in the Pre-Rade. In the past, the procession began as first-years departed the University president’s address in the University Chapel and then marched alongside Nassau Street, through the entrance of FitzRandolph Gate and then to Blair Arch. Over the past two years, however, students have started on Cannon Green, walked to and through FitzRandolph Gate, before being seated in front of Nassau Hall to hear the president’s address. From there, they have walked to Alexander Beach, partaking in the barbecue, the Class Photo, and the Step Sing.
Opening Exercises entail a speech from University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83, interfaith ceremonies, and presentation of undergraduate awards.
In this year’s address, titled “Think Critically, Embrace Generously”, Eisgruber told students to take the challenges of their time at Princeton in stride.
“There will inevitably be not just triumphs but also sorrows, not just laughter but also tears, when we challenge ourselves, when we develop and change, and when we care deeply — as we should, as we must — about our academic and co-curricular endeavors and our community,” he said.
Eisgruber, in discussing struggle, recounted an anecdote he has shared in speeches and in response to questions about his difficulties in his first-year physics class as a student at Princeton.
“I took a physics class that was too advanced for me, and I struggled throughout my first year. I was too proud, though, to ask anyone for help. I wanted to prove that I could get through it myself. That was a mistake, and it made that year much tougher than it needed to be,” he said, urging students “to be strong enough to ask for help when you need it.”
Eisgruber also used Maria Ressa ’86, who was present at Opening Exercises and whose 2022 book “How to Stand Up to a Dictator” was this year’s Pre-read for the Class of 2027, as an example of someone who kept her resolve in the face of challenges she faced at Princeton.
Specifically, Eisgruber shared Ressa’s senior thesis, a play she wrote and which she described in her book as her “own private exorcism” — an emotionally charged and yet transformative experience.
“Your Princeton experience, of course, will differ from Maria Ressa’s. It will be uniquely yours. I expect, though, that your path through Princeton, like Maria’s, will include inspiration but also anger, discoveries that may elicit both enlightenment and tears, and lasting friendships along with vexing challenges,” Eisgruber said.
Ressa — who is a journalist as well as co-founder and CEO of Filipino news website Rappler — was awarded the 2021 Nobel Peace Prize for her reporting work.
Eisgruber finished by reaffirming Princeton’s commitment to equality and inclusion and encouraged students to engage freely in campus discourse.
“We can, and should, aspire both to think critically and to embrace generously. I hope that is the path you choose while you are here at Princeton and throughout your lives.”
For first-years, Opening Exercises and the Pre-Rade marked an early milestone in their Princeton careers.
Elisa Gonzalez ’27 told The Daily Princetonian that seeing family members and alumni cheering students on was heartening.
“You could tell that people were very welcoming,” she said. Gonzalez added that Opening Exercises were a nice “showcase of what Princeton had to offer in terms of diversity.”
Yuki Huang ’27, hailing from Atlanta, Ga., told the ‘Prince’ that the Step Sing was a particularly memorable moment for her that day.
“Everyone comes together,” she said.
Huang is the first in her family to go to college, and she said partaking in the tradition of the Pre-Rade was a nice welcome into the University community.
“Minus the fact that it was super hot outside,” she said.
Sandeep Mangat is a head News editor at The Daily Princetonian.
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Undergraduate students passed four referenda last fall with at least 65 percent of votes for a variety of issues, including divestment from weapons manufacturers, dissociation from fossil fuel companies, improving standards for student workers, and instituting a pass/D/fail option for language classes.
But several months after the vote, University administrators have indicated that the referenda will not necessarily be implemented — and the student sponsors say they are unclear on where their proposals currently stand.
“It’s very much behind closed doors. [There’s] no transparency at all,” said Anna Buretta ’27, the sponsor of Referendum No. 3, which advocated for fossil fuel dissociation.
At a meeting of the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) in February, University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 referred to the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) student referenda as “something that the student government created” and emphasized that the referenda are “not part of something that is a part of University administrative processes.” The CPUC includes students, faculty, and staff as well as top administrators like Eisgruber and Vice President for Campus Life W. Rochelle Calhoun.
University spokesperson Jennifer Morrill referred The Daily Princetonian to Eisgruber’s comments in response to questions about the status of the referenda.
Despite having no binding power over University policy, USG referenda have a long history on Princeton’s campus, often acting as a driving force behind campus discourse and, in some cases, producing tangible change.
For example, a November 2020 referendum that called for fossil fuel divestment passed with 82 percent approval among students. Two years later, in September 2022, the Board of Trustees voted to dissociate from 90 fossil fuel companies, including major players like Exxon Mobil Corp. and NRG Energy Inc (although late last year, the University said it would accept some research funding with fossil fuel companies previously subject to dissociation).
Some referenda have been more contentious, and less successful in promoting change. The Caterpillar referendum, for example, which called on the University to halt the usage of Caterpillar construction equipment, passed the student body vote in 2022 according to the rules of the USG. However, USG later upheld an appeal contesting the efficacy of the vote, choosing not to move forward with a recommendation to the University to implement the Caterpillar referendum.
Position papers drafted by the USG Senate — which outlined students’ stances on each of the referenda — were sent to University administrators on Jan. 26, as required for successful referenda.
In a written statement to the ‘Prince,’ USG President Enzo Kho ’26 and Vice President Aishwarya Swamidurai ’26 wrote that student referenda were “a meaningful mechanism for students to express their perspectives and advocate for issues they care about.” They added that USG’s main responsibility was to administer the referenda and effectively communicate the positions expressed — and that the USG Senate did not take a position on the “underlying referendum question(s).”
Bryce Springfield ’25, an organizer with the Young Democratic Socialists of America who contributed to portions of Referendum No. 2 — which advocated for improved employment standards for student workers — said that while he had met with administrators about the proposal, it was not necessarily the only end goal.
“The referendum process is a way to get people conscious about various issues,” he said. “Students do not have any democratic control over [the] University by any official means.”
These comments came amid growing frustration among progressive campus groups over the lack of administrative action on the referenda.
Buretta expressed her view on the relationship between the University and USG initiatives.
“I think that a university that thrives and prospers is one where the people running the university are in constant communication with the students,” she said. “If they’re essentially dismissing referenda then there’s literally no way for us to hold University officials accountable. And I don’t think that is a healthy dynamic.”
Kian Petlan is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) has convened an ad hoc committee to find independent legal resources for Princeton students following the passage of a resolution affirming free speech rights last week.
A day before the USG spring campaigning begins on April 7, the USG Senate also convened for its weekly meeting to hear presentations on the functions of the Movies Committee and the Committee on Campus and Community Affairs (CCA), as well as a presentation from Transportation and Parking Services (TPS).
USG President Enzo Kho ’26 began the weekly Sunday meeting by addressing the Civil Liberties Resolution. The resolution passed in an executive session following last week’s USG meeting.
The goals of the resolution are “affirming speech and due process rights,” “establishing resources for students impacted,” and “promoting civil discourse on campus.”
Kho explained that an ad hoc committee is being created to “research and compile [...] a list of independent legal resources to which students may be referred in case of legal action taken against them as a result of otherwise-protected expressive activity.”
The committee is chaired by Daniel Shaw ’25 and is active effective immediately. It will be dissolved on May 31, unless renewed.
Following the discussion on the resolution, Kevin Guilbault, Deputy Director of TPS, and Amanda Stevens, Assistant Director for Campus Engagement for TPS, gave a presentation on potential changes to campus transportation due to changes to class schedule times. TPS runs services like the TigerTransit bus service, the Car Share Program, TigerAccess and Bike Registration.
This upcoming fall, the class schedules will be adjusted to allow for 15-to-20-minute transition periods between classes, instead of the current 10-minute transition periods. While the TigerTransit change is under consideration, matching the bus schedule with class schedules and locations may prove difficult, according to Stevens.
“We are paying attention to what the impact [of the changing passing times] between classes will be," Stevens explained. "It is very difficult to time classes and specific locations, but ... we are working on figuring out how to balance some of those changes.”
Head officer of the USG Movies Committee Tierra Lewis ’25 then presented the weekly movie showings at the Garden Theater. She said that critically acclaimed movies, such as Oscar-nominated or winning films, are prioritized. Lewis also explained that student feedback is integrated into the selection process, with frequently requested movies and polls on their Instagram considered in the selection process. This Friday, the USG Movies Committee will show Crazy Rich Asians in collaboration with the Asian American Students’ Association.
Lewis noted that the committee’s budget proposal for next fall may include increased funding for screening more blockbuster movies, which cost more to feature, and increased free concessions. The current budget for the committee is $30,000 per semester.
On behalf of the Campus and Community Affairs Committee, Oscar Barrios ’27, Armaan Nemati ’27, and Yao Xiao ’28 highlighted past campus activities. For the spring semester, the committee has been allocated $50,000 for their events, which have included vouchers for meals at local restaurants and Tigers in Town.
They also shared that a total of 15 trips will have been offered by the end of the spring semester, an increase from the previous semesters. This past weekend, USG sponsored a trip to New York City for a coffee crawl and a trip to the Dodgers–Phillies game in Philadelphia.
USG Meetings are open for all students to attend and are held on Sundays from 5–6 p.m. in Robertson Hall 016.
Andrew Arthur is a staff News writer from London, England and typically covers USG, CPUC, Princeton’s institutional legacy and administrative matters.
Devon Rudolph is an associate News editor and staff Sports writer for the 'Prince.' She is from northern Virginia and typically covers student life and USG.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.In the first three months of their tenure, Undergraduate Student Government (USG) President Enzo Kho ’26 and Vice President Aishwarya Swamidurai ’26 have attempted to tackle a fundamental limitation of their positions.
“USG is only in the role for a year, right? And admins are there for 20-plus years,” Kho told The Daily Princetonian in a joint interview with Swamidurai.
Many of USG’s biggest policy changes — the reduction of mental health copays this summer, for example — have come through working closely with University administrators, career professionals who have a host of duties beside student government. For Kho, Swamidurai, and the rest of the Executive Committee, however, the terms only last one year.
Much of Kho’s work has focused on stewarding USG’s institutional memory. During USG meetings, he has highlighted his meetings with past USG presidents and pulled out anecdotes from the USG archives.
“We can only progress so much with our work if we also have a heavy root in our institutional memory,” Kho told the ‘Prince.’ “I’ve been very grateful that a lot of former presidents and former council chairs reached out to me. I was able to understand the context [of USG].”
“Every USG administration has done incredible work. The important thing to understand here is the timeline for change. Some of the initiatives and policies that we’re pursuing are obviously long-term changes,” Swamidurai said.
Kho recently met with University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 and Vice President for Campus Life Rochelle Calhoun, although the details of the meeting remain elusive.
In the most recent USG meeting, Kho explained that he and Swamidurai had received “lots of useful information [during the meeting] that will guide a lot of the work we can do in the next few weeks.”
“There’s a lot of behind the scenes of USG where each week there’s so many meetings with admin from different areas of campus,” Kho explained in an interview. “We make sure we’re representing students well in a way where we bring their concerns to the admin.”
Asked how frequently USG interfaces with administration, Kho and Swamidurai explained that leadership meets with administrators regularly — often weekly — and that many changes stem from these conversations.
“A lot of [policy changes] came from a lot of the conversations and meetings,” Kho told the ‘Prince.’
Swamidurai noted that most collaboration between USG and the University administration happens with the University vice presidents, such as Vice President for Campus Life Rochelle Calhoun. She also underscored that the USG meets with President Eisgruber at least twice a semester to update him about its work.
One of Kho’s main focuses under his administration is to make USG more outward-facing and accessible.
Kho said that the USG has been working regularly with the USG communications committee. He emphasized efforts such as “coffee chats through different [subcommittee] chairs,” pop-ups, and town halls, which aim to “give different platforms to the student body to engage with USG and admins.”
“A big part of USG capacity is being that bridge between the students and the admins,” Kho said. “I would say we’ve been on track in terms of making sure we keep that promise.”
Swamidurai echoed this sentiment. “An element of accessibility for USG is … the behind-the-scenes work in connecting student groups. If students reach out to us, right?” she said. “It’s really important that we respond and also bring them into conversations and let them know what’s going on, which I think has most certainly been the case.”
The newly formed Communications Committee, proposed and approved this semester, was designed to centralize messaging, manage the USG website, and improve internal coordination. Kho defended the committee’s purpose: “The reason why we wanted to form a communications committee is because [USG] actually was more bureaucratic.”
Referencing a disjointed structure for interfacing with one another, Kho stated that “there [wasn’t] that direct kind of communication [previously].”
Reflecting on his administration’s progress, Kho said, “We’re pretty fortunate and pretty happy that all the chairs, all the people in USG, are pretty engaged and active. I feel like USG’s work this year has been pretty much on track.” He added that having an engaged team allowed leadership to explore new ideas beyond the original platform.
Swamidurai emphasized that progress is more than new policy. “We came into USG, not just wanting to pursue specific initiatives but also just to connect with students. I think we’ve done that through this coffee chat model. We’ve heard great feedback from students.”
With Spring elections approaching, new budget proposals pending, and Lawnparties on the horizon, Kho and Swamidurai are focusing on continuity and clarity.
As Kho put it, “It’s really a team effort, and we’re pretty grateful that we have such a strong team.”
Andrew Arthur is a staff News writer from London, England and typically covers USG, CPUC, Princeton’s institutional legacy and administrative matters.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Senate convened for its second meeting of the Spring 2025 semester on Sunday, Feb. 16 to discuss a second budget review, a Project Board budget request, a Communications Committee Decision, and a review of Student Group Recognition Committee guideline changes.
The meeting began as usual with the Presidential Report from USG President Enzo Kho ’26. Kho opened the meeting with a quote from former USG president David Calone ’96. “A large part of our efforts will be geared toward proving to the students that the USG can and does make a difference in their lives,” Calone said in 1994.
Kho said that the Senate had finalized position papers on the referenda that passed in November. The position papers were sent to University administration, although Kho noted that the University is not obligated to provide formal responses. “Next week, we’ll be reaching out to the sponsors, and we’ll be scheduling one-to-one meetings with [the referenda sponsors],” he said.
Position papers are reports written by the USG that explain the position of the undergraduates as reflected in each referendum, outlining next steps for the USG Senate and recommendations for University administrators. They are typically written by various members of the Senate directly following the passage of referenda.
Following this, USG Treasurer Quentin Colón Roosevelt ’27 reported no changes to last week’s budget allocations and noted $53,000 remained unallocated. Roosevelt also mentioned that the USG still had $53,000 unallocated before the budget for the Spring 2025 semester was passed. There was not any discussion at this week’s meeting regarding the use of the unallocated funds.
Evan Callas ’27 outlined the goals for a new Communications Committee, including providing event photographers and a student engagement coordinator. However, Aly Rashid ’26 raised some concerns about increased bureaucracy within the organization, a sentiment that was not echoed by any other members of the Senate.
“While I understand the purpose of this, I want to raise the fact that we have so many sub-divisions in USG and I understand that it is a big thing to make the work that the USG does more communicable, but I don’t know what how having a communications committee set up is more beneficial,” Rashid expressed.
Student Group Recognition Committee (SGRC) chair Arosheny Puvanenthirarajah ’26 discussed changes to the SGRC structure. She explained that, for student groups, the period between the submission of documents to meet with the Senate and the actual meeting date has been extended to allow more time for review.
“That is just an effort to make sure that more student groups who actually plan things in advance, and have their documents ready, are able to meet with the Senate,” she explained.
Senior Developer and Co-President of Tiger Apps Joshua Lau ’26 introduced Tiger Apps, explaining its purpose, team structure, and accomplishments. Lau said that around 2,500 unique users use one of the 13 apps weekly and 95 percent of students annually.
“All of our infrastructure costs are fully supported by USG,” Lau added.
As the meeting neared its end, Daniel Shaw ’25, the U-Council Executive Committee Representative, explained that a new U-Council Chair will be elected to fill the vacancy that opened when then-U-Councilor Swamidurai took up her current position as Vice President at the start of this new year.
A motion was then passed to allow for a 10-minute executive session discussion, at which point the meeting was closed to the public, and media was asked to leave.
USG Meetings are open for all students to attend and are held on Sundays from 5–6 p.m. in Robertson Hall 016.
Andrew Arthur is a staff News writer, from London, England and typically covers USG, CPUC, Princeton's institutional legacy and administrative matters.
Correction: A previous version of this article said Enzo Kho ’26 claimed to be reaching out to University administrators. He actually claimed to be reaching out to referenda sponsors. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error. The piece has also been updated to better define the term “position paper.”
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Senate held its final meeting of the semester on Sunday, which featured updates from the past year. Reported achievements include the Mental Health Committee successfully reducing copays for mental health services, the Social Committee hosting one of the most expensive Lawnparties yet, and a continued trend of increasing election competition and turnout.
USG president Avi Attar ’25 presided over the final meeting, opening the floor for members to share their thoughts as the semester drew to a close.
The meeting opened with U-Council co-chairs Daniel Shaw ’25 and Aishwarya Swamidurai ’26, who discussed their proposed amendments to the freedom of expression, student privacy, and investigation protocols within Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities. Swamidurai is the USG vice president-elect.
This year also saw a ballooning budget, with USG spending $592,000 in this semester. This comes after the Spring 2023 vote to double the activities fee to $95.90, the first increase since 1996. Last semester’s budget was $656,047.
Treasurer Uma Fox ’26, who ran an unsuccessful bid for USG president in the Winter 2024 elections, told the Senate, “I think all these numbers are testament that it was a good choice to raise the student activities fee.”
Despite this budget surge, Projects Board funding ran out before the end of last semester due to an uptick in funding requests. At the time, Fox told the ‘Prince’ that USG was trying to determine the “cause” of the increase in demand.
Social Committee chair and USG president-elect Enzo Kho ’26 recapped high-profile events such as Lawnparties, First Day of Classes celebrations, and Dean’s Date festivities across the past year. According to Kho, USG spent $280,000 on Fall Lawnparties, among the most expensive in Princeton history.
Academics Committee chair Vivian Bui ’26, who led a campaign for a referendum calling on the University to allow language classes to be taken Pass/D/Fail, highlighted the committee’s support for staggered final assessments. This move has resulted in the end of Dean’s Date as we know it, slated to take into effect in Spring 2025.
The Mental Health Committee also saw a significant win this year, with chair Meera Kochhar ’26 highlighting her committee’s work to reduce copays for mental health services.
Genevieve Shutt ’26 of the Campus and Community Affairs (CCA) Committee highlighted events, ranging from trips to the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade to funding support for the local farmers’ market.
The Wellness Programming working group, Athletics working group, Transit working group, Sustainability Committee and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee only discussed ongoing or upcoming initiatives.
Elections chair Alex Sorgini ’26 reflected on engagement in this year’s elections, which saw 111 candidates across the fall, winter, and spring election cycles and a 62 percent turnout in the first-year council races, which was higher than the 53 percent turnout in the general election. More than half of undergraduates voted in the most recent election, an increase from the approximate 40 percent turnout from Winter 2023.
Sorgini also emphasized that all elected positions during the most recent election were contested. “If you recall, last winter was the first time that every position was contested in a very long time,” he said. “So maintaining that interest for a second year is very notable.”
The Senate will reconvene in the spring to build on its progress and address ongoing student concerns. More details will be announced about the location and time of future meetings.
Alena Zhang is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Senate met via Zoom on the Sunday following Thanksgiving Break to review next steps for the referenda that were passed in the recent election, hear a presentation on Title IX procedures, and approve a Social Committee budget request for a Dean’s Date celebration. The meeting was the second-to-last under current president Avi Attar ’25, before president-elect Enzo Kho ’26 takes over.
The four referenda that undergraduates passed last week, which advocated for enhanced employment standards for undergraduate workers, fossil fuel disassociation, pass/D/fail options for lower-level language classes, and the University’s divestment from weapons manufacturer, were all passed under the USG’s advisory power. In the meeting, USG representatives discussed the requirement that they now write position papers based on the referenda. These position papers will include an explanation of the official position of the undergraduates as stated in the referendum resolution, action steps for the USG Senate, and recommendations for other relevant University or student groups.
The representatives will choose members to write the position papers over winter break and turn them in by the start of next semester.
The Senate voted to close the public portion of the meeting and enter executive session before discussing the referenda. However, due to a miscommunication, Senate members did not request that reporters from The Daily Princetonian exit.
Prior to the meeting entering executive session, Director of Gender Equity and Title IX Administration Randy Hubert led the presentation about Title IX, addressing the formal grievance process, myths and misconceptions regarding Title IX, the alternate resolution process, common terms, and confidentiality for students.
Hubert’s presentation initially concentrated on the importance of mandatory reporting. “For undergraduate students it’s Residential College Advisors and Community Living Advisors who are mandatory reporters,” she said. “The mandatory reporting requirement really has two goals. One is to ensure that the impacted individual consistently receives accurate information about resources and reporting options that are available to them, and that they have access to supportive measures.”
“The Title IX office is a clearinghouse for all those reports of sexual misconduct. Someone who’s experienced sexual misconduct may not be aware of a pattern of that behavior, but my office would be aware of that, and if there’s a need for the university to intervene based on a concern about the safety of the campus community, that reporting requirement allows us to have enough information to be able to do that when appropriate,” Hubert added.
The presentation then shifted towards the formal grievance process, which is an official investigation and adjudication of allegations of sexual misconduct which involves official investigators who collect information through interviews and documents. Hubert clarified some misconceptions that surround the investigation process.
“There are two ways that investigations start,” she said. “Almost always, they start because the impacted student chooses to file a formal complaint, which initiates an investigation. In very limited circumstances, my boss, who is Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity Michele Minter can initiate an investigation if she has a concern about safety to the University community, but that’s never done without consulting with the impacted student.” Hubert added that there is no set amount of evidence of misconduct that is needed to move forward with an investigation.
In the case that the formal process results in no finding as to whether University policy was violated, the office also facilitates an alternate resolution process. Speaking about this process, Hubert commented, “We try to give students as much agency as possible to decide where to report and what resources to use. As I mentioned before, there are limited circumstances when a Title IX investigation would be initiated without a student wanting to proceed. There’s always consultation with the student before that happens, and we never force a student to be a complainant.”
The Senate also voted to grant the Social Committee’s budget request of $4,000.  The funds will be used for lighting equipment for this fall’s Dean’s Date celebration, one of the Social Committee’s signature events.
Andrew Arthur is a News contributor for the ‘Prince’ from London.
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: A previous version of this story stated that USG did not request that observers exit the meeting when they voted to go into executive session. In fact, USG asked some observers to leave, but did not request the same of the ‘Prince’ reporters present. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On Jan. 13, Princeton University Health Services (UHS) officially relocated to Frist Health Center (FHC). The new location is north of Goheen Walk, near the old McCosh Health Center.
The construction of Frist Health Center is part of the University’s efforts to bolster healthcare services for members of the Princeton community.
“McCosh Health Center was built in 1925 at a time when healthcare delivery systems were entirely different than those of today, and Princeton had many fewer students,” UHS Director Janet Finnie ’84 wrote to The Daily Princetonian. “Frist Health Center is larger, but is also redesigned to support efficient and effective healthcare delivery.”
When walking into the lobby of FHC, visitors are greeted by a large open space with tall windows. The building itself is a mix of past and present, with the more modern exterior built around some of the old brick buildings that already existed.
“I was surprised by how big it was and how much natural light there was inside,” Angie Challman ’25 told the ‘Prince’ in an interview.
“Frist Health Center was designed to create a warm, welcoming, and inviting environment for students,” Finnie wrote to the ‘Prince.’ “No matter what entrance you use to enter the building, you will experience a soaring, light-filled atrium and the Isabella McCosh Garden, which utilizes biophilic design concepts to increase student and occupant connectivity to the natural environment.”
Finnie explained that FHC was designed with sustainability features, such as using timber to sequester carbon that would otherwise be released back into the atmosphere.
While the construction of the building was deliberate, some students were not impressed with FHC’s outward appearance.
“It looks like a dining hall,” remarked Zhuolin Xiang GS.
“I went inside yesterday, and it was really modern and pretty,” Ladan Abdullahi ’28 said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ “It doesn’t really fit the aesthetic of the rest of the college, but it’s pretty nice inside.”
For others, the new building brought greater convenience. FHC includes several new amenities that McCosh Health Center did not have, such as the new intercom system that allows students to talk with a nurse after hours about any problems that may arise.
“I had to get an ice pack for a friend the other day, and it was after hours, so I just went to the intercom system, and it was really efficient,” Yiling Li ’26 told the ‘Prince.’
Li discussed the difficulty in solidifying a same-day appointment in the old McCosh Health Center, telling the ‘Prince’ that, in contrast, “[FHC] was easier.”
When discussing the improvements made for FHC, Finnie remarked that the new building is equipped with “private rooms and bathrooms for overnight patients in the infirmary, a striking student lounge, a yoga/meditation contemplative space, a new multipurpose room that will be a shared resource for campus partners, and more.”
“The number of offices for counselors was increased, as were the number of exam rooms available to serve students,” she added.
While FHC provides Princeton students and faculty on campus with an upgraded facility for health services, the center’s opening was not an event that all on campus were aware of.
In a campus-wide email sent on Dec. 5, Finnie and UHS Executive Director John Kolligian Jr. announced key dates related to the opening of FHC, with the relocation of UHS officially taking place on Jan. 13.
Though students and faculty returned to campus from winter recess soon after the reopening, UHS did not send out a reminder to the campus population.
“I honestly forgot the new health center was opening,” Challman explained. “I thought [the building] was the new res[idential] college.”
“I just found out [about FHC opening] a few days ago,” Li added.
For students looking to take advantage of the new and expanded services offered, the UHS website has been updated to reflect the changes.
The FHC is open Monday through Friday from 7:45 a.m. to 4:45 p.m.
Doug Schwartz is a staff News writer and an associate Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Annapolis, Md., and typically covers town and gown, facilities and housing, and health for News.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.When we get back at the end of January, the new Frist Health Center will be open. The new space will be twice as big as the current McCosh infirmary. But we have not yet received word of additional providers being hired nor counseling services that will be on offer.
This is a huge oversight.
With the promise of a new, larger University Health Center, the University must accordingly prioritize expanding the staff at Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS) to properly meet the mental health needs of the student body.
According to The Daily Princetonian’s 2024 senior survey, nearly 75 percent of last year’s seniors considered seeking out counseling during their time at Princeton. Given the current 29 treatment staff members and Princeton’s enrollment of 9,050 graduate and undergraduate students, this would mean that there is approximately one counselor available for every 234 Princetonians who are considering counseling.
From a logistics standpoint, meeting this level of student need with the present counseling staff is not possible. As a result, it’s unsurprising that CPS wait times have previously been the target of criticism, with designated wait times for initial consultations taking up to five days or longer to schedule and with follow-up appointments often taking an additional two weeks. It is no surprise that CPS describes their counseling as “short-term.”
For students who need longer-term care, the University has contacts to providers outside of CPS, but this option is limited logistically: The campus health center is directly in the middle of campus, convenient to everyone. Meanwhile, off-campus appointments may take time to go to, requiring students to take Uber or Lyft, albeit heavily subsidized, trips to appointments. Although telehealth appointments are a strong option, some students prefer or need in-person appointments, which are most conveniently provided within CPS.
Moreover, counselors outside of CPS may be less well-versed in dealing with issues students face specifically at the University. This contrasts with University counselors who pride themselves on “[supporting] the psychological well-being of the Princeton University Community … available at no cost to currently enrolled Princeton students.”
If the purpose of CPS is to treat the student body free of charge, there should be at least as many counselors available as students who are in need. Otherwise, students may be unable to find a counselor well-versed in University student problems specifically or be unable to front the cost of meeting with them on a regular basis.
There isn’t often a better opportunity to fill this gap than the new Frist Health Center, which promises to better treat the health care needs of students on campus. At this moment, there have been no substantive remarks on what the exact role the health center will play in shaping CPS on campus beyond simply being its new location.
Campus expansion, including the new health center, has followed class expansion. But when it comes to health, it’s not just the square footage that we need — it’s the providers. The University should take this opportunity to dedicate resources to expanding counselor availability on campus. This development is allowing the University to set the record straight on mental health at Princeton, after previous unproductive remarks and little change. The University can begin to treat mental health at Princeton as what it is: a crisis.
The construction of the Health Center should not be seen as a crowning achievement of the University unless it comes with a concrete promise to make mental health care more accessible for students at the University. Beyond continuing to reduce financial barriers that prevent students from accessing counseling off-campus, additional counseling staff must come with the relocation.
Students should not worry about waiting weeks to meet with a counselor on the short-term when they are struggling with their mental health. There should be no need for students to be forced to seek counseling off-campus with a fee. These changes are feasible and would mark true progress towards bettering the health of students on campus. The opening of the new Frist Health Center can mark the beginning of this era — if the University wants.
Davis Hobley is a columnist for the ‘Prince,’ and a member of the Class of 2027 who intends to major in Neuroscience. He hails from Rochester, Mich. and can be reached by email at dh2172[at]princeton.edu or his personal Instagram @davis_20.23.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.Plans to move University Health Services from McCosh Health Center to the still-unbuilt Frist Health Center has led to speculation about what will occupy the vacant space. While the University has yet to announce an official plan for McCosh, students have speculated on possible uses for the site. Graduate students have shown particular interest in the building, citing a current lack of designated campus spaces for graduate students.
In November 2023, the University announced a plan to replace McCosh Health Center following a “major gift” from Dr. Thomas Frist Jr. Construction of the new facility is expected to be completed in 2025.
In an interview with The Daily Princetonian, Amari Tankard GS, the president of the Graduate Student Government (GSG), said that the GSG talked with the administration about a graduate student center back in 2019, but, since then, talks have stalled. She cited the decentralization of graduate student spaces and lack of easy access to meals as the main issues leading to these desires for a dedicated space for graduate students.
Tankard compared the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) office space in Frist Campus Center to the GSG office in the basement of Campus Club. She said the GSG space frequently has accessibility and sanitation issues.
She added that the facilities workers at Campus Club use the GSG office as their lunch room. “I’ve had meetings in there where they're just sitting on the other side of the table eating lunch …  It’s a hot mess.” Tankard also said that there were sometimes mice in the office.
Tankard shared that she complained to the head of Facilities at Campus Club and the former Assistant Dean for Student Affairs but nothing was done to address the issues.
“When the University is made aware of concerns by GSG, we work to quickly address those concerns and will continue to do so,” University Spokesperson Michael Hotchkiss wrote in an email to the ‘Prince.’
Two other graduate students also spoke to the ‘Prince’ in an interview, expressing their support for a graduate student center. David Whyman GS mentioned how “the undergrads and grads are people at different stages in their life,” and that it would be better to have a specific space for graduate students.
Rose Guingrich GS echoed these sentiments and shared that “Frist student center doesn't seem very grad student-oriented.” Guingrich and Whyman both hope to have a space for offices and meetings, and cited the lack of permanent office spaces in certain departments and social areas to build community.
While originally conceived as a space for the entire student body and faculty, Frist Campus Center is known today as a hub for undergraduate students. The center hosts the USG office, McGraw Learning Center, Frist Theater, cafés, and several other gathering spaces for student activities. Frist also draws in students on the unlimited meal plan, largely underclassmen, for late meal.
Tankard echoed many similar desires along with spaces such as “cafés, convention centers, perhaps even like a large room for speaker events [and] a playroom for children [of graduate students].”
She adds that grad students who are on campus “24 hours a day” have very few spaces to eat which she says is especially difficult because graduate students live far off-campus.
Last spring, Princeton Graduate Student United (PGSU) cited affordable housing deficiencies as a major issue for graduate students. With the cost of living in Princeton being increasingly inaccessible, many graduate students have been forced to find accommodations in surrounding areas.
Anthony Taboni, a graduate student in the politics department, claimed in an interview with the ‘Prince’ last spring that he and his partner searched for four months, offering six months of rent upfront, and adding his mother as a co-signer, to no avail. He claimed that he reached out to the housing office, but their suggestions were not feasible. In the end, Taboni wound up renting a one-bedroom apartment in nearby Plainsboro, N.J., for $2,000 per month.
At Harvard University, Tankard explained, her colleagues have a different experience with individual offices, a convention space, and a conference room.
Tankard expressed that she felt these differences in treatment “[speak] to what is important to the school at the time, and I wish that we had a little more of an important space to be in.”
While “the Graduate School supports the idea of a Graduate Student Center and is continuing to collaborate with the GSG and other partners to explore future options,” University Spokesperson Jennifer Morrill wrote in an email to the 'Prince' that the University “will consider the viability of a wide range of potential uses.”
Another idea students have proposed for the space is a campus pub. At a USG meeting last fall, former USG president Stephen Daniels ’24 named McCosh Health Center as a potential location for a pub.
“Because we are still in the planning phase, any locations for the potential events are still being determined,” he wrote in an email to the ‘Prince’ at the time.
As of now, it remains unclear whether these wishes will be granted. Morrill added that future plans for McCosh Health Center have not been initiated yet.
Claire Meng is a contributing News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Whether for routine checkups or “frosh flu” treatment, many Princeton students will visit University Health Services (UHS) at the McCosh Health Center at least once. By contrast, far fewer people will visit Princeton Medical Center (PMC), but those who do are often in for a nasty surprise — a much higher medical bill.
This is not an unfortunate inevitability, but rather a direct result of the University’s policy decisions. Princeton’s Student Health Plan (SHP) was foundationally designed around covering coinsurance (a percentage of healthcare costs) rather than copays (a fixed amount) and includes comparatively lower reimbursement on out-of-network care. The University should switch from a coinsurance plan to a copay to reduce undue financial burdens on students and bolster existing emergency funds.
The SHP is by far the most common health insurance plan on campus. All current graduate students are automatically enrolled, and undergraduates who do not have a health care plan that is deemed satisfactory by the University’s rigorous standards are required to enroll. Many students do not qualify and are consequently forced to enroll in the SHP  — even Medicaid is not considered a satisfactory plan despite being the second-most popular form of medical insurance in America (behind only employment-based coverage). In total, the SHP covers 46 percent of undergraduates on campus, according to the Office of Communications.
For the majority of Princeton students, the SHP provides exceptional coverage if you stay within UHS. As of the 2024–25 academic year, it costs $3,510 to receive coverage — this is incredibly affordable considering that the national monthly average premium cost is $1,178, which adds up to over $14,000 annually. Although this new cost represents a $360 increase from last year, the University adjusts financial aid in order to ensure that the cost does not inhibit a student’s ability to enroll at Princeton. Students who receive full financial aid do not incur any additional costs through SHP. The plan, accessed through Aetna’s student insurance, is fairly comprehensive and covers the majority of various student expenses such as checkups, laboratory tests, some prescription drug costs, and vaccination. When these services are accessed through the McCosh Health Center, many are even free.
However, the SHP isn’t perfect — prioritizing coinsurance, rather than a copay presents a challenge outside of standard services. Copays are fixed out-of-pocket costs for each service covered by insurance. In comparison, coinsurance forces individuals to pay a percentage of their healthcare costs. To put this in perspective, consider this: if you receive a service that costs $20 and you have a plan with a $20 copay, you would pay $20. In comparison, if you have a plan with 90 percent coinsurance, you would pay two dollars. But what if you were to require a service that costs $2000? In that case, you would still pay $20 with the copay plan; however, you would need to pay $200 with the coinsurance plan.
Although coinsurance is an acceptable policy for most standard medical expenses, it can come back to bite people when they seek out emergency services, which are far more expensive on average. In particular, New Jersey ranks as the number one state for Emergency Department visit costs, with the average bill ranging around $3,750.
This cost is exacerbated by the fact that emergency services are often much more likely to be accessed through out-of-network providers, and given that the SHP has only 70 percent coinsurance for out-of-network care, students could be on the hook for 30 percent of the cost even after they have paid the deductible in full. As a result, a single visit could easily cost well over $1,000 in out-of-pocket expenses for a student if the services happen to be provided by an out-of-network provider, especially in cases in which students are receiving care in emergency situations and they don’t have the chance to inquire about their health provider’s network. Furthermore, it could be incredibly difficult for students to know whether an emergency services provider is in- or out-of-network. 20 percent of Americans who go to an in-network hospital are still given a bill for out-of-network care from a doctor and 50 percent of ambulance rides generate an out-of-network bill.
Although these costs may seem as though they would be rare or isolated, these costs can hit Princeton students in unexpected ways. During the academic year, students need care from professionals UHS does not have or students who are in a condition that could be life-threatening are often sent to Princeton Medical Center (PMC). Unlike UHS, services provided at PMC are not free and, based on the coverage provided by the SHP, the costs of a single trip via ambulance to PMC can be significant, even nearing the $1,000 mark if the provider happens to be out-of-network. Additionally, being sent to PMC is no rarity. In cases of alcohol poisoning on campus, students will be sent off  to PMC in an ambulance, which may cost  as much as 400 dollars for the approximately 4 mile trip. In some cases, students could request not to be taken to PMC by ambulance, but then be charged hundreds of dollars involuntarily if their request is denied. With this knowledge, students who may be unable to pay such a cost out-of-pocket will likely feel pressure to not seek medical attention — or be forced to receive emergent care they can not reasonably afford when they lack the capacity to consider those costs.
The University has made steps to address the problem of these out-of-pocket costs through various supplementary initiatives that students can apply to and be awarded money to cover their medical costs, with the Special Needs Fund being one of the main initiatives to date — an emergency fund for students who find themselves with unexpected financial needs. However, these measures are inadequate. For example, the Special Needs Fund is critically capped at only $300 allotted per student over the course of an academic year, and other resources, such as the Dean’s Emergency Fund, generally only grant up to $500. For some students, the limited nature of this support could be devastating. For reference, the cap for individual expenditures on the SHP is $5,000 for medical and $1,350 for prescriptions, which adds up to  $6,350 in combined costs. A small grant of $500 wouldn’t go a long way in covering such expenses for students faced with high individual expenditures, forcing students into difficult financial positions.
It doesn’t need to be this way. Some of Princeton’s peer institutions have done a much better job at alleviating the financial burden of an unexpected medical expense. For instance, Brown University provides free ambulance services to students with medical emergencies. Princeton can and should follow models like this.
In order to prevent health-care related financial catastrophes, the University should alter the student health plan to provide increased coverage for all medical services. They should take on a copay model, rather than a coinsurance model, in order to decrease the risk of a student becoming stuck with thousands of dollars in medical costs on the University’s watch. Moreover, they should allocate additional dollars to funds like the Special Needs Fund to help students who have multiple health emergencies over the course of the academic year. The University has the resources to provide better support to students with medical emergencies — there’s no excuse for their inaction.
Davis Hobley is a columnist for the ‘Prince,’ and a member of the Class of 2027 who intends to major in Neuroscience. He hails from Rochester, Mich. and can be reached by email at dh2172[at]princeton.edu or his personal Instagram @davis_20.23.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.To all the buildings I’ve never been in before: I’m sorry. Sometimes, I lose myself walking the same paths I’ve walked a hundred times before. It’s so easy. McDonnell Hall to McCosh Hall. McCosh to Frist Campus Center. Frist to New South Building. New South to Whitman College. I get caught up in the day-to-day, retracing my steps between the usual places. I know the stairs of Frist well from my early visits to late meal, the package room, and the quiet third floor. I have walked the basement passages of Whitman that will lead you from dorm to dining hall. I have spent hours in New South covering the whiteboard walls in diagrams and outlines. But you, you nondescript building on my weekly route — I’m sorry I didn’t give you a chance.
In one of my favorite childhood book series, the Septimus Heap series by Angie Sage, there’s a ghost named Alther Mella. He can talk, impart wisdom, and spy on the living by flying around and passing through walls. But there’s a catch: He cannot visit places he hadn’t been to in his living life. He’s trapped within the bounds of his old haunts.
It’s only a premise for a kids’ novel, but it stuck with me. What would it be like if I walked Princeton’s campus as a ghost? Wouldn’t it be terrible if I was stuck perpetually walking the same route up McDonnell to McCosh, and from McCosh to Frist? Or visiting the exact same bathroom or shower stall, just because I was a creature of habit during my time at Princeton? If I became a ghost right now, would I regret not exploring more?
There are moments when I’m seized by a sudden impetus to break out of my regular bounds. This campus is so small and so walkable that I ought to know every inch of it. Walk into every room. Touch every wall. Take a left turn instead of a right turn. Who knows what I’ll find? Once, in my freshman year, I stumbled across a secret garden tucked away in Butler College. It was like an outdoor grass amphitheater, with a spiraling stone wall tracing its way around. Overgrown with weeds, it looked like a place from a fairy book, hidden and untouched.
Later that year, my desperate need to finish my writing seminar paper drew me to a large glass building next to McCosh in search of the mysterious Architecture Library. There, ensconced in a bowl-shaped chair, I furiously typed out the last few pages of my paper to the distant sound of music on my headphones. I’ve never taken an architecture class. I probably never will. But nothing stopped me — no invisible boundary excluded entry for non-architecture students. In our four years, we have the opportunity to make every space our own. Why not take a chance?
To this day, the Architecture Library is one of my favorite spaces to finish an unfinished paper. When I crave natural light, I go to the Carl Icahn Laboratory, the soaring glass building bordering Poe Field, home to the molecular genomics program. Both are places I found while exploring new buildings, pushing away the anxiety that I’d stick out as an interloper. I’ve found that very few doors on campus are actually closed to undergraduates.
This fall, ever since I committed to a study abroad program for my junior spring, I’ve kept a personal bucket list: Work in every library on campus. See movies at the Princeton Garden Theatre. Go to a football game. Try every item on the menu at my eating club. I’ll still have senior year, but until then, I’m keen to soak up as much of campus as I can before I leave. I started going on morning walks with a friend to explore beyond campus. It’s surprising how little time it takes for the streets of this small town to become familiar.
And yet, sometimes, the strangest surprises come from places I think I know. By looking a little more closely, I discover something new. On one pass down the Frist stairs, I noticed that there were tiny names inscribed in faint orange font on the orange metal banners. On an underground walk to the Whitman dining hall, I noticed with some amusement that there was a giant, larger-than-life human skull locked in a cage between Fisher Hall and Wendell Hall.
And if I look even more closely, I find the marks of those who walked the campus before me. The concrete pillars of the Architecture Library tell a story; it’s written in faint pencil messages and lazy sketched doodles. On the wooden tables at PJ’s Pancake House, carved initials stand for scores of past students and visitors. They’re one way to leave a legacy — to prove that you came, you explored, and you changed a place just as it changed you. In them, I see generations of past students leaving their footprints on this campus, speaking to us across time: I was here. I was here. I was here.
Jessica Wang is a member of the Class of 2026 and a staff writer for the Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at jessica.wang[at]princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As students leave home to attend the University, they’re faced with a variety of new steps. Throughout their undergraduate career, students grow accustomed to the new environment and the academic rigor of the University, make friends, and likely will have to adjust to a new medical provider on their own for the first time.
University Health Services (UHS), often referred to by students as ‘McCosh,’ is Princeton’s primary healthcare provider that provides medical, health, and wellness services to the University population. Among its departments are ‘Medical Services,’ which focuses on providing care related to physical health, ‘Counseling and Psychological Services’ (CPS), which provides mental health care, and ‘Health Promotion and Prevention Services,’ which works towards the prevention of alcohol and/or cannabis abuse.
In a series of interviews with a dozen undergraduates, The Daily Princetonian found that some students express dissatisfaction with McCosh in two categories: the ability to secure an appointment and the level of engagement that they received.
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ Dr. Melissa Marks, the Director of Medical Services at UHS, wrote, “We send surveys to every patient seen in Outpatient Medical Services, unless they have been seen and received a survey within the prior two weeks.” Marks described the scores as being “above the benchmark at other similar institutions,” with 94 percent of survey respondents being either “very satisfied or satisfied” with their visit in the current academic year.
Medical Services offers three types of care, including general/primary care, which addresses general medical concerns, chronic medical conditions, and good health, urgent care, which addresses acute illnesses and injuries that require prompt attention, and the infirmary, which is available for patients who need overnight or urgent care after-hours.
Three students, with the pseudonyms Eva, Nate, and Chris, were granted anonymity to discuss their medical experiences.
In the fall of 2022, Eva, an undergraduate, was scared about something being “fundamentally wrong with her body.” Experiencing irregular periods as a first-year, she went to UHS, seeking answers and treatment.
After she got an appointment, Eva saw multiple doctors for answers to why she was experiencing irregular periods. “I was losing blood at a concerning rate,” she said.
Four appointments, visits to two different medical professionals at UHS, and multiple lab tests did not deliver a diagnosis.
“After [UHS] could not figure out the cause, they just put me on birth control and said that all they could do is regulate the blood cycle,” she recalled.
Eva felt that UHS could have done better. To date, she does not know the source of her medical problem.
Eva’s concerns with UHS started with trying to secure an appointment. “I waited two weeks to get an appointment, which itself was quite stressful because of the nature of the reason I wanted to go to them,” Eva said.
To request a general/primary care or specialty medical appointment students have to call the UHS front desk. Primary care for health maintenance, a health concern for more than two weeks, or management of chronic illness and follow-up of a primary care appointment are also available to schedule online through the MyUHS portal. Students have to call the front desk to book an urgent care appointment and can walk into the infirmary anytime after hours to seek care, though UHS does recommend calling beforehand.
Eva’s concerns over a lack of available appointments are shared by other students. Olivia Johnson ’26 had an infected finger last semester. “When I went [to UHS], the doctor asked me why I didn’t come earlier,” she said. “I had been trying to get an appointment for several days. They were fully booked.”
Another student, Uma Menon ’24, said that she had a persistent cough for a month in Fall 2022. She tried getting an appointment once before fall break, but the waiting time for an appointment that fit with her schedule was around five days.
“I decided to wait [the cough] out and try again after fall break,” she said. Uma was able to get an appointment after fall break and didn’t choose to seek outside care during the break. She instead chose to take medicine at home.
Marks responded to concerns over a lack of appointments.
She wrote that, “[UHS’s] practice goal is to see all patients with acute illness within 48 hours,’’ after it follows a practice of “triage,” wherein a nurse assesses the acute problem that a patient has and then decides whether the student should be “seen immediately, seen that day, seen within 48 hours,” or “managed with supportive care at ‘home’ with close nurse follow-up.”
Marks explained that UHS’s functioning was changed by the pandemic, with COVID-19 forcing them to shift their practice to allow their clinic “to triage and assure appropriate pathways for patients.”
“We are shifting back to pre-pandemic practice. Online appointment making is now available for all appointments except for acute care, which still requires an initial nurse triage,” she wrote.
Triage, Marks said, is critical for medical practitioners to prioritize medical cases. “It provides a way to make sure that students in most need are seen and cared for immediately, whether it be by UHS or a nearby emergency department. To not engage in some sort of initial assessment of students that gauges when a student should be seen might lead to a student not getting the care they need in a timely way,” she wrote.
Students sometimes felt that the triage process led to an underestimation of the seriousness of their illnesses.
“During midterms last fall, I had flu-like symptoms — fever, a cold, and a sore throat — and called McCosh to see if they could see me,” Kira Newbert ’26 said. “Their response was that they could not see me because they were only seeing ‘really sick students,’ implying I was not sick enough.”
When asked about whether she had the time to provide a sufficient explanation of her condition to the nurse on-call, Newbert replied, “Not really. They didn’t ask any follow-up questions about my symptoms.”
“I ended up being so sick that I had to miss my bio midterm,” Newbert recalled.
Newbert is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Marks wrote that “any student who feels that their wait is too long or has a different concern and wishes to provide feedback may do so” at UHS’s feedback website.
“In addition, a link to our grievance procedures can be found on the UHS feedback page,” Marks wrote.
Students also felt that appointment schedules didn’t match a Princeton schedule. “For most of the week, [students] have classes until the evening, and there are no time slots for an appointment post-5 p.m. during the week,” Johnson said.
Newbert echoed the concerns. “Especially when students are already so busy, it can be very stressful to try and find an available time slot,” she said.
Eva felt that having more available doctors and nurses on call may help. “The appointments they had did not fit with my schedule so the process stretched out for weeks, which is not convenient when you have a pertinent health issue. So, they definitely need to have more doctors available to solve this problem,” she said.
UHS declined to comment on requests for data on number of doctors on-call on an average working day, the number of doctors per department, or the funding that each department receives. Marks noted that there is a physician on call for UHS 24/7.
On a school morning, Chris, an undergraduate, woke up feeling discomfort due to a slight swelling in his neck. He went about his day, thinking the pain would disappear. When it did not, he went to UHS seeking care. He saw two nurses, but no doctor on-call, and ultimately left the health center without any answers or treatment.
As opposed to others who waited days for their appointments, Chris was seen immediately. He went to the infirmary outside open hours, which are from 8 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Monday to Friday, and Saturday from 8 a.m. to 3:45 p.m. “I went to McCosh in the middle of the night, so it was clearly a significant issue,” he said.
There were no doctors on-call, but nurses checked his vitals. “They could not tell me why I had the swelling or what I could do in the immediate term to make it better,” he said.
Other students expressed frustration with their experiences talking to the medical professionals.
“[UHS staff] were kind and compassionate in our face to face interactions, but it didn’t feel like they were willing to take the time to understand what was wrong,” Eva said.
Nate, an undergraduate, described inconsistent guidance. He said that he had a headache, cough, and a sore throat for about two weeks before making an appointment. “The doctor told me to continue taking Mucinex and Ibuprofen and said that they would prescribe me antibiotics in three days if the current treatment didn’t work,” Nate said. However, when he went back after three days, a different doctor said that they do not prescribe antibiotics for people with the symptoms he was experiencing.
Vasudha Bharathram ’26 recounted two negative experiences with McCosh.
“I had a 103 degree fever and decided to book an appointment with McCosh. I got an appointment after two days and they just gave me a packet of salt and told me to gargle with it, running no tests,” she recalled.
“More recently, I had a cold, and they gave me a COVID test,” Bharatham added. “It had expired three weeks ago.”
In response to these concerns, Marks wrote that UHS practitioners follow a two-step process of diagnosis and follow-up. During diagnosis, they try to deduce “what an illness is not, and what it may be.” They also try to assess whether “a student is in danger or is safe to continue self-care and monitoring of symptoms.” Follow-up occurs either through a telephone or an appointment made in the clinic.
She explained that practitioners cannot be fully successful in diagnosis. Rather, they tell patients, “[t]his is what I am thinking you have, but time will tell, or the response to the medication we prescribed will give us information, or let’s check back in a few days and by that time the illness may clarify itself.”
“Diagnosis is a process that often requires time. Students generally come to us in the initial stages of their illness,” said Marks.
“What we can say at this point is often what an illness is not, and what it may be. We can also say whether a student is in danger or is safe to continue self-care and monitoring of symptoms,” she continued.
After their appointment, students are also sent the aforementioned post-appointment survey. Every student the ‘Prince’ interviewed, except one, said they received the survey.
In regards to the quality of providers, Marks wrote that UHS conducts “extensive ‘credentialing’ of healthcare providers, which involves verifying the providers’ education, training, licenses, internships/residency/fellowships, as well as conducting extensive background checks.”
Eva strongly believes that McCosh needs structural changes, specifically because of a lack of healthcare options. “It’s not just that I could not get the care I needed, but that they also didn’t refer me to anyone outside McCosh,” she said.
“Being a student on Cigna Health (the insurance Eva is on), getting access to an outside practitioner is really complex. I don’t quite know what the process is. It’s overwhelming — for the average student who is trying to take undergraduate classes and have a part-time job on top of that,” she added.
UHS provides a set of detailed documents on its Student Health Plan (SHP) section of the website, highlighting healthcare aspects covered for students, for dependents, referral and pre-certification requirements, and its preferred provider network, which is Aetna Student Health.
Eva called for UHS to provide an easy-to-understand explanation of outside care options covered by UHS. “The health insurance logistics are complex, and if not explained properly, can act as a barrier to you accessing care,” she said.
Eva is a low-income student, and she stressed that any problems with UHS affect low-income students the most. “For low-income students like me, there is a limited pool of money available as co-ops and insurance, so we really depend on McCosh,” she said.
“I don’t have the means to get access to outside care — no time, no car, and not many places covered by insurance. If McCosh is going to be my primary healthcare resource, they need to have everything,” she added.
Kaustubh Jain is a Features contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: This piece has been updated with further context from UHS administrators.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.“Scheduled to open in 2025, the Frist Health Center will help the University advance a culture of health and well-being on the Princeton campus,” brags Princeton’s announcement of its new health center. While more space devoted to mental health on campus is critical, we also need to dedicate more time to each student who comes in for treatment. Currently, for many students grappling with mental health issues, the brevity and non-continuity of counseling sessions offered — particularly the default of a 20-minute consultation, and the typical treatment at Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS) being “short-term” — falls dramatically short of what is required for genuine understanding and healing.
20-minute consultations, as they currently exist, may not be enough for many students to express their problems or build a bond with their therapist. Opening up to a therapist — a stranger when you meet them — demands courage. Revealing the inner-workings of our minds is no trivial matter, and people may need time to express their thoughts. Short encounters can leave students feeling more like case numbers than individuals with complex inner lives.
The current setup defaults students to biweekly meetings, but there is an option to meet more often.  In an email to the ‘Prince,’ University Director of Media Relations Jennifer Morrill said that CPS “typically see[s] students once every two weeks, but will see students more frequently than that depending on clinical needs.” If students cannot easily opt into once-a-week therapy, the two-week default stretches of time between appointments can disrupt the flow of therapy, which can make each session feel like starting anew rather than building on previous discussions. This fragmented approach to care undermines the essence of therapy as a journey of mutual exploration and discovery.
CPS’s current model disregards the amount of time students need to discuss their problems, requiring more than just consultations and two-week stretches between appointments. The well-intentioned but ultimately insufficient drop-in hours must also be revisited: drop-in hours are each thirty minutes with a therapist, which can feel dismissive. Last spring, they implemented one-time hourlong appointments, which is not what students need, either: we need lasting relationships with therapists. It’s understandable that CPS wants to provide stopgap measures like these but these steps can feel like a mere procedural formality rather than a step toward well-being. The difficult truth is that the University has to figure out how to provide the care that we need: sufficient session time and consistent support over at least the course of a whole semester or more.
For that matter, there is also a disconnect in CPS’s view of its role in long-term care. CPS communicates counseling at McCosh being “short-term” and expects students seeking continuous care to be refered out of the University system. This conception can undermine the student-therapist bond for the time that a student is seeing a CPS counselor. Evidence shows that having a trusting relationship with your therapist is significantly correlated with having better therapy sessions and that trust is important to the patient-therapist bond. When you know that your counseling at CPS is intended to be “short-term,” or that you will have to switch therapists soon, it makes it harder to create a bond with your current therapist. The discontinuity undermines the patient-therapist relationship.
What the University is doing on mental health right now is a step in the right direction but still does not address this need for a fuller relationship with therapists. President Eisgruber’s mention of an expanded CPS after the construction of the new health center has sparked a hopeful discourse. But why wait? Students with urgent mental health needs must be able to establish a long-term relationship with their providers. To do so, UHS must build the necessary infrastructure to allow for more regular and consistent sessions. This necessitates hiring more staff in the short term. With a larger team of mental health professionals, CPS can provide more long-term support over the whole semester, allowing students to build deeper relationships with their providers.
Improved mental health assistance is urgent. Each student loss serves as a reminder of the need for a more compassionate and understanding system. Through hiring more staff, the frequency of therapy sessions can be expanded, which is crucial for addressing a range of needs and strengthening the bond between students and therapists. This, in turn, boosts confidence in the effectiveness of CPS. By prioritizing mental health, the University can demonstrate a profound commitment to the well-being of its student body. We must take steps now and lay the groundwork for a future where every student can thrive and feel supported by a culture that values and actively supports their mental health.
Maria Luisa Vieira Parada is a sophomore from São Paulo, Brazil, intending to major in physics. She can be reached at mparada@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Initially started as a student enterprise in 1890 and formally established as a campus cooperative in 1905, the Princeton University Store (U-Store) is an iconic go-to place for the campus community and a prominent outlet for showcasing Princeton’s identity—perhaps embodied by its best-selling gift, the Einstein Tiger plush toy.
Operating from two main locations — one on campus near Blair Arch and another on Nassau Street — each address serves distinct purposes. The Nassau Street location focuses primarily on apparel and accessories, while the campus location offers a broader range of merchandise, including a smaller set of apparel, stationery items like notebooks and folders, and groceries and snacks. The Daily Princetonian analyzed sales data of the U-Store across both locations from the first quarter of the fiscal calendar, spanning from June 30 to September 28, 2024.
The top three departments with the biggest contributions to the U-Store’s total sales this quarter were Men’s Apparel, Grocery, and Women’s Apparel, and they accounted for 26 percent, 16.9 percent, and 14.4 percent of total sales, respectively.
When deciding which new items to merchandise, the U-Store develops personas for different groups of customers—namely for students, alumni, visitors, and the community at large—to define their tastes and preferences. They keep up with the market, whether it is through talking to vendors and manufacturers or trying products that companies want to try with them, to understand the Princeton community better.
“We look at how the consumer is responding to things that may be more what we call traditional in their design and look and feel,” U-Store President and CEO June Archer ’85 said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ “And then we also want to be bringing in things that are more, what we would say, trend-based or contemporary because we have a lot of young people here, and they look for modern styling.”
“We have to be financially solvent,” she said. “So as much as we want to do all of the fun things, we have to be able to sustain the business so that we provide services for our members.”
While the U-Store is constantly working on introducing new products for the audiences, Archer recognizes a limitation, as with any other business.
“We’re constantly trying to make sure that those students that are on campus every day feel like we are a destination for their needs,” Archer said. “And the alumni, when they come to visit, we want to make certain that they are able to express themselves.”
Items in the U-Store are categorized into two main divisions: Insignia and Campus. The Insignia division focuses on Princeton-branded merchandise and includes Men’s Apparel, Women’s Apparel, Kid’s Apparel, Accessories, and Gifts. The Accessories category comprises items such as totes, magnets, and umbrellas, and the Gifts category includes novelty items like plush tigers and mugs. The Campus division provides practical and general items, Grocery includes food and beverage items, and General Merchandise features dorm essentials and everyday items like cleaning supplies.
The top three selling items by quantity during this quarter were all within the Campus Division — specifically the Grocery department — with bananas leading sales with 2,134 units sold, followed by Smart Water Sport (700 ml) with 1,180 sold and Smart Water (1L) with 968 sold.
“If you look at it unit-wise, we would definitely say that students are where we see so much activity because they’re in the campus store buying bananas and mango slices and other consumable products,” Archer said.
The quantity of Apparel sold was relatively small compared to items in other departments, as the top ten selling items in Men’s and Women’s Apparel categories sold only between 40 and 83 units each. However, each of these top ten items made over $2,100 in retail sales. This higher revenue came from the higher price point of apparel, which compensated for the lower sales volume.
Zhennan Zhao ’28 said that the U-Store is an integral part of the dorm life at Princeton.
“[The U-Store] provides a lot of necessities that students need—food, clothing, basic items that people need in their rooms,” Zhao said.
The convenience of the U-Store was cited as a possible reason for the top selling items being within the Grocery department.
“You could buy something on Amazon and have it shipped, and it would probably be cheaper, but it takes time to ship, time to process,” Zhao said. “The U-Store is relatively close.”
“I think it makes perfect sense considering how much people want to represent their school and also the pricing of the products,” Zhao said. “So when you have, let’s be honest, highly priced products and a lot of demand for them, it makes sense that a majority is going to be Insignia.”
“Our heavy-up sales are definitely going to be the alumni base because they are buying goods at a higher price, and those are the apparel and accessories items,” Archer said.
With regards to the total quantity of the top ten best-selling items by department, grocery led with 9,037 items, followed by gifts with 5586 items, and accessories with 4,091 items. This was a bit different than the total retail of the Top 10 best-selling items by department, as gifts led with $56,327.71, followed by accessories with $44,516.21 and general merchandise with $38.539.03.
The time of the year has an impact on which items sell more, as reflected by items in the General Merchandise department that topped the list for the past quarter—the top three items from a retail perspective were the Door Mirror, Pillow 100% Poly Fiber Fill, and the Princeton Planner 2024–25 with sales of $8,069.60, $4,920.01, and $3,927.61, respectively.
“The General Merchandise section in this particular quarter, because this has move-in data and [students] are just coming to school and getting settled, the closet items will always be best sellers,” Archer said.
A large part of the U-Store’s operations centers around working with the University on trademark licensing, as they need approval for using the intellectual property.
“[The trademark licensing team at the University is] responsible for approving or not approving everything,” Archer said. “So while we are certainly partnering with trademark licensing to bring them our thoughts, ideas, and desires to do whatever, there is a group of professionals who are ultimately responsible for maintaining the integrity of the marks and intellectual property.”
Princeton’s school spirit is ultimately what drives the U-Store’s business model, as insignia remains the core part of the U-Store’s business, accounting for 69.3 percent of the total sales this quarter, while the campus division accounted for the other 30.7 percent.
“There’s an emotion uniquely Princeton, and we are very fortunate. I mean, we wouldn’t have the business we have, and we would not be able to expand it if we didn’t have that spirit. And that is what the university’s gift to us is,” Archer said.
Andy Lau is a contributing Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Hellen Luo is a contributing Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The U-Store is, on average, the cheapest option for a broad range of campus essentials. Considering its proximity to most residential colleges, as well as the new policy which allows undergraduates on the unlimited dining plan to spend their $150 per semester of dining points or Paw Points at the U-Store or C-Store, the U-Store is especially convenient for students.
The ‘Prince’ analyzed prices of 27 of the U-Store’s more than 5,000 items and compared those prices to the prices of the same items from five convenience stores around or close to campus. The items were organized into six categories: beauty, beverage, grocery, health, household, and snack. The ‘Prince’ manually collected price data from the U-Store, C-Store, CVS, Wawa, and Princeton Convenience as well as Amazon, as an e-commerce alternative.
U-Store membership prices were also included as a potentially cost-saving option. According to U-Store president Jim Sykes, “probably 80 to 90 percent of students become members.”
Prices of items were standardized by quantity across all stores. For example, a single deodorant stick’s price from Wawa for $3.99 is doubled to compare with a two-pack of U-Store deodorant for $9.99.

The U-Store has lower prices than its competition in most categories. As a a non-profit organization, “the only reason [the U-Store] exist[s] is to serve this community,” Sykes said.
He also noted that the U-Store has benefited from Pay with Points, an Undergraduate Student Government initiative implemented in the fall of 2022. “The sales have been dramatically better since they implemented that [dining points],” Sykes said.
Wawa does not sell household goods and sells the most expensive snacks and health products. Amazon prices may be less expensive if students buy items in bulk, but were only analyzed in U-Store item sizes.
“A couple of times a year we try to do a price comparison with Wawa and generally CVS,” Sykes said. “We don’t really compare against Princeton Convenience Store. In the case of both CVS and Wawa, they are paying less than us from the vendors because they have much larger buying capability.”
Sykes said the U-Store is a hybrid between a convenience and grocery store in terms of pricing and selection.
There are other convenience stores in town. Princeton Convenience opened in September 2020 and focuses mainly on household goods, and its products are often more expensive.
Amazon and the U-Store sell all the most common items analyzed while the C-Store sells the fewest. When one store’s pricing is far higher than the others, it is often Wawa or Princeton Convenience. Often the U-Store membership or Amazon is the least expensive.
Wawa was not the least expensive option for any item analyzed.
When analyzing the prices of individual items, Amazon, followed by the U-Store, is often the low-priced store, even though Amazon is the most expensive option 26% of the time. This means that only 18% of Amazon items analyzed are not either the highest or lowest price for an item analyzed.
Four of the stores analyzed offer memberships and additional savings, often at a cost.
For higher-weight items, the U-Store is often the best option. With a Prime membership, Amazon ships for free, so their prices are higher for heavier items to compensate for lost shipping revenue.
CVS ships items for $5.49 and is free for orders above $40.49. All items analyzed for CVS are available at the Nassau Street location and online and can be ordered for pickup.
The U-Store, Amazon, and Wawa sell produce, which was not considered in this analysis. Amazon produce is sold through Whole Foods Fresh and is delivered within two hours, but Frist Campus Center mailing still has to process the shipment before it is retrievable. All customers, including ones with a Prime subscription, are charged $9.95 in shipping on orders under $50, $6.95 on orders  $50 – $100 , and $3.95 on orders from $100 – $150. Orders above $150 qualify for free shipping.
While the U-Store with membership is the most cost-effective in all categories but one, it is not always the most convenient. Rocky, Mathey, and colleges are closest to the U-Store, Whitman is equidistant to the U-Store, C-Store, and Wawa, and Forbes, NCW, and Yeh are all closest to Wawa.
The two convenience stores located on Nassau Street are, on average, the furthest from all residential colleges and are open for the fewest hours per day after the C-Store.
The U-Store is open every day from 8 a.m. to 2 a.m., the C-Store is open every day from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., Wawa is open 24 hours a day, every day, Princeton Convenience is open 7 a.m. to 12 a.m. weekdays and 8:30 a.m. to 12 a.m. on weekends, and CVS is open 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. every day.
Andrew Bosworth is a data contributor.
Please direct any correction requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.In early November, the self-checkout system at the U-Store’s University Place location was removed without explanation.
Joette Leamon, the U-Store’s Director of Stores, declined to comment about the reasoning behind the self-checkout system’s removal. Students, who rely on the option to quickly move through the store, have mixed feelings about the removal of self-checkout.
Darden Shuman ’27 and Anastasiya Chernitska ’28 both told The Daily Princetonian that they did not feel the removal of the self-checkout system was a major issue and expressed that they found the system faulty.
Shuman added that in her experience, the U-Store self-checkout system “usually did not work and had a lot of glitches.”
Six of eight students interviewed by the ‘Prince’ reported that they had experienced glitches in the system.
Ella Sloan ’27 said, “You would scan your stuff, and it would come up as an error, or you would scan your [student ID], and it wouldn’t work, so I just ended up going to the cashier.”
John Van Horn ’25 said that the system was “a bit buggy.”
Douglas Herring, a local criminal defense attorney, representing four University students charged with theft offenses at the U-Store claims that his clients’ charges were a result of alleged glitches in the self-checkout kiosks and cursory scanning of items, not an intent to steal.
Herring declined to provide corroborating documents or disclose the identity of his clients to the ‘Prince.’ Herring is soliciting clients accused of shoplifting from the U-Store. His website lays out his office’s plan for defending students and seeks students who might want his services.
The Princeton Municipal Prosecutor, Chris Koutsouris, did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Leamon wrote in an email to ‘Prince’ that when it comes to cases regarding U-Store theft, “the Princeton University Store has complete faith in the judicial system and each party’s right to due process.”
U-Store lawyer Shawn Neufeld declined to comment about the legal proceedings of theft cases.
Still, students found the self-checkout option useful, especially during busy hours.
Brian Zhou ’27 told the ‘Prince’ that he was “a little disappointed that [the self-checkout] is gone.”
“It was really helpful, and I feel like it was pretty easy to use after the first time,” Zhou said.
Three students told the ‘Prince’ that they have experienced longer lines at the U-Store since the removal of the self-checkout.
“I was always a little frustrated with the software,” Van Horn said. “But I don’t think they should have removed it as an option. Sometimes when there’s long lines, it was very useful.”
Nico David-Fox is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Washington, D.C.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The precious minutes before classes wrap for the day are often signaled by the crinkling of paper and the echo of rushed zippers. Cramming loose pencils and expensive laptops into their bags of choice, students brush by each other as they near the classroom exit.
Some students carry bags that are clear forms of aesthetic expression, while others seem to use a bag only because they had to. Wrapping up the last of my classes for the day, I found myself leisurely strolling through the main campus, taking in the clusters of students hauling everything from full backpacks to empty totes. In these moments of observation, here’s what I found.
As groups of students open the heavy wooden doors at McCosh 50, you can’t help but notice a wave of sleek, minimal black bags. Spanning brands from The North Face to Herschel Supply & Co., these bags rarely deviate from the norm with a sleek, minimal aesthetic, except for the occasional decorated pin or sentimental patch.
Many of these bags have been accompanying their student counterparts since their high school years. In an interview with The Daily Princetonian, Nicole Ramirez ’27 said of her bag, “I’ve had her since my sophomore year of high school, and I just have to sew her up every once in a while.”
Aside from the usual worn-down backpack, another familiar backpack among the student body continues the sporty, sleek trend — the Princeton athlete backpack, adorned with tags and symbols of the owner’s sport.
But even athletes are updating their bags — although within the brands under which they are contracted.
“We get one every year. So I’ve just kind of cycled through four backpacks during my time here,” said Mason Armstead ’25, a defensive back on the football team. While athletes aren’t required to wear their issued bags, he mentioned some restrictions on the type of bag he is allowed to carry: “No Under Armour or some other sports teams [brands],” he said, since the Princeton football team contracts with Nike.
Beyond their oftentimes simple exteriors, backpacks are a popular choice of bag because of their useful interiors. With a million random pockets, the most organized (or disorganized) student can neatly manage their items, or at least attempt to. The appeal of these bags is simple, and their function is guaranteed for users: Even the clumsiest student knows that their expensive technology won’t be cracked anytime soon.
Pushing past the sea of black bags and moving towards East Pyne, the bag colors shifted from black to beige and from two shoulder straps to one. Rather than minimalist exteriors and complex interiors, the world of tote bags, designed with the opposite concept, opened in front of me.
Like a treasure hunt without the map, tote users must forage in their bag for their singular pen, which, of course, is right next to the book they don’t read.
Dylan Conard ’27 uses a canvas tote bag that has a light blue painted background stamped with picturesque images of France. Conard found the tote during his trip to Paris, where he was visiting a family member. This was typical with tote users I spoke to: Designs were often tied to the stories of where students found them.
In fact, from the Princeton-branded totes found in the U-Store to totes found abroad in foreign places like Madrid and Greece, it seems that no two totes are the same. Unlike other bags, however, I found that it was rare to see individual expression in the form of attached charms or pins on tote bags. It seems that tote bag users base their individuality on the original design of their tote bag or, simply, whatever was conveniently on the tote, regardless of design.
“I had a backpack, and I switched to a bag just because it’s bigger and more convenient for my computer,” Maria Olivarez ’28 said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ Olivarez’s current tote is decorated with popular Princeton imagery and was sourced from the U-Store. Doodles of iconic buildings such as the Princeton Chapel are paired with drawings of tigers, making Olivarez’s tote both functional and fashionable.
However, there is one standout tote bag that has recently made waves on campus: the Longchamp Le Pliage Original L Tote bag, specifically in the color Navy. Gaining popularity on social platforms such as TikTok and Instagram, this tote quickly replaced the former slouchy leather tote bag aesthetic that was present last semester.
Some Longchamp owners, like Anamaria Artola ’27, made the switch from using a backpack to a tote. Artola told the Prince, “I like this bag because I only carry my computer and my iPad. Since everything’s on a laptop and it’s pretty light, you can keep it in the tote.”
Combining the possible sore shoulders of the tote bag and the maximum square footage in a backpack, one group of bags balances the expressive traits of tote bags with the organized aesthetic of backpacks: the messenger bag. Ranging in construction from deep red and black leather to lighter canvas fabrics, messenger bags on campus are often decorated with unique and mismatched charms and trinkets.
“I got a carabiner from my host grandmother in Japan, and I also have a little mahjong towel that I got from a gotcha-pong machine,” said Matthew Barrett ’25. Barrett’s bag was gifted from a family member, a trend I saw in other messenger bags around campus. The older aesthetic still serves its purpose for a new generation.
While our bags may serve as our mostly-unacknowledged companions through the experience of Princeton, our choice in how we carry our tools of success might make you give a second thought about bags the next time you rush off to your next class.
Amanda Hugas is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for The Prospect. She can be reached by her email at ah0942@princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Eating clubs cost between $9,500–$12,500. The unlimited dining plan costs $8,340 and the Block 105 plan costs $3,234 for 8-10 meals a week. Co-ops, an alternative meal plan, serve only dinner and brunch, and members have to partake in cooking and cleaning shifts. The cost lies between $1,000–$1,300 annually.
These are the primary choices upperclass students, who are no longer required to be on the unlimited meal plan, have to choose from, unless they go independent. According to the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students (ODUS), independent students are defined as “students who agree not to join an eating club or to hold a university dining plan.”
According to the 2023 Dining Pilot Report, 14.6 percent of the 2023 and 2024 graduating class were independent and four percent were members of a Co-op on campus. For many, being independent and cooking for themselves is a financially-motivated choice.
Access and options to food and social spaces for upperclassmen was a topic of interest with the 2023 dining pilot. The dining pilot was an initiative by the University to build more community in eating. The program gave around ten percent of upperclassmen five swipes per week which they could use to eat at eating clubs, co-ops, dining halls, retail dining locations, and late meal. A group of student leaders who signed an alternative plan on Oct. 4, suggested that the pilot should allow the “Two Extra Meals” program to include late meal and meal exchange, extend the dining point system to upperclassmen, open eating clubs to upperclassmen at certain points in the semester and create more social spaces on campus.
For independent upperclassmen, grocery shopping while living on campus is not as straightforward as it may seem. Only a few stores are convenient and within walking distance of campus, with others more accessible via public transportation. Some stores, such as Costco, are only easily reached by car.
Andrew Jung ’25, a senior independent living in Spelman Hall — which is made up of apartments with full kitchens — goes to Costco occasionally using Enterprise CarShare, an hourly car rental service. Students, faculty, and staff receive a $25 credit when they join the program. This credit brings the total annual membership cost to $25 plus hourly rates for rentals of the 17-car fleet across eight campus locations.
“I used to use Zipcar, but stopped because it was unreliable and sometimes the car wouldn’t even show up,” Jung said.
Different grocery stores have vastly different offerings. More generic grocery stores, like Wegmans, Costco, and specialty stores like Trader Joe’s are often further from campus. Maruichi, a Japanese grocery store just on Nassau Street attracts locals and students for supplies and quick bites.
Across the five grocery stores, ShopRite and Wegmans provided, on average, the lowest price of goods. Whole Foods and the U-Store had the highest prices. Though the U-Store edges out convenience store competition in campus essentials, grocery shopping at the U-Store is, on average, more expensive than grocery shopping at large chain supermarkets. Price is a big consideration for independent students.
“Being independent is a lot cheaper than being in an eating club or on the dining plan, [but] it isn’t cheap either,” Jung said. “[I am] a lot more wary of spending money.”
For Jung, meat is especially difficult to purchase near campus.
With the start of the new school year, TigerTransit has changed routes, providing more service over the weekends. Sam Dorsey ’26 is a member of 2D Co-Op, which regularly sends people to get groceries on the Weekend Shopper bus. Dorsey dislikes the bus due to its long wait times and unpredictably.
Many Co-ops, including 2D Co-op, actually source their groceries from bulk wholesalers for a cheaper price. Brown Co-op president Jesus Herrera ’25 wrote to the ‘Prince’ that “our Co-Op orders about 99% of our food through US Foods, the same distributors as dining halls and eating clubs.”
“It’s very possible to be independent on campus,” Jung said. Jung felt confident about becoming independent because of Maruichi, a grocery store that’s walking distance from campus, opening up.
Upperclassmen can reduce or drop their meal plans until Sept. 20. Meal exchange begins on Sept 23.
Mary Ma is the Creative director and a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.In a recent press release, the University announced its intention to rename 36 University Place in honor of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor ’76. Located at the northwest corner of Blair Courtyard, the building is best known among students as the site of the on-campus University Store.
“I’m curious to see why that building in particular was chosen,” Eleanor Hawkins ’28 said in an interview with the Daily Princetonian, reflecting current students’ association of 36 University Place with the U-Store, where students can purchase everyday items.
However, 36 University Place is also home to the Emma Bloomberg Center for Access and Opportunity, the Center for Career Development, and the Admission Information Center, where Orange Key Tours begin and information sessions are held. Due to this role, it is one of the University’s most public-facing buildings, and for many, marks the first space on Princeton’s campus that prospective students, their families, and other visitors see.
The March 11 press release notes the building’s diversity of roles as a “site of programs that support first-generation college, lower-income, transfer, and veteran students.” Sotomayor’s selection as an honoree was made with these programs, and their missions in mind, based on recommendations from the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) Committee on Naming.
University President Christopher L. Eisgruber ’83 called Justice Sotomayor a “trailblazing student” and an “extraordinary jurist” in a University statement announcing the renaming. She has served as an Associate Justice since 2009 — the first justice of Hispanic heritage and the third woman in Supreme Court history. She is also a former University trustee. In her time as an undergraduate at Princeton, Justice Sotomayor was a co-chair of the student group Acción Puertorriqueña y Amigos, a member of the student-faculty Committee on Discipline, and served on the governance board of the Third World Center.
According to their webpage, CPUC Committee on Naming provides “advice to the Board of Trustees with regard to the naming of programs, positions and spaces at Princeton.” Recent work from the committee includes the 2022 rededication of Marx Hall to honor Laura Wooten, who served in Campus Dining for more than 27 years and was recognized as the longest-serving poll worker in the US. The committee also recently studied the removal or relocation of the statue of John Witherspoon, although the Board of Trustees declined to alter the statue on the basis of Witherspoon’s views on slavery or ownership of enslaved people.
The building is currently undergoing minor changes. University Spokesperson Jennifer Morrill said that new signage and a dedicatory plaque will be added to the building.
Additional changes include “improvements to the bluestone entry plaza and replacement of the canopy fascia,” Morrill wrote in a statement to the ‘Prince.’ This work will be completed over the next few weeks. Currently, the campus-facing entrance to the University Store is closed, and the doors opening to University Place and the Admission Information Center are the only points of entry, meaning students must often walk around the building to purchase food, toiletries, and other products.
Diya Kraybill ’25, Editor-in-Chief of the Princeton Legal Journal, wrote to the ‘Prince’ about her excitement for the renaming of 36 University Place. “Justice Sotomayor is an incredible example to all Princeton students, but particularly students interested in pursuing a legal career,” she wrote.
For other students, however, the specific choice of building was surprising.
“I think that she could probably get a better building,” Ella Anderton ’28 told the ‘Prince.’ “Of all the buildings, it is kind of strange they picked the U-Store.”
Beatrice Cassidy ’28 also acknowledged Sotomayor’s influence on American politics and felt that it was time for more buildings to be named after her. She described the selection of 36 University Place as “a bit random.”
Regardless, many students see Sotomayor’s name as a powerful reminder of Sotomayor’s successful career after Princeton.
“I believe the naming of Sonia Sotomayor Hall will serve as a powerful reminder to students of Justice Sotomayor’s career as a truth-seeker and advocate for justice, and the role that Princeton played in shaping her path to the highest court in the land,” Kraybill said.
Tess Weinreich is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince’ from Washington, D.C. She typically covers University operations. She was formerly a Managing Editor for the ‘Prince’.
Devon Rudolph is an associate News editor and staff Sports writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As spring approaches, the student body flocks outside, trading bitter nights in Chancellor Green for fresh air and warmth during end-of-semester study sessions. To provide an escape from the stuffy and solemn reading rooms of Firestone Library, here is a list of the best outdoor study spots on campus.
Cannon Green is by far the most congested outdoor lawn on campus on a sunny day. Set behind the picturesque Nassau Hall and decorated by the “Big Cannon,” Cannon Green puts the historical roots of the University on full display. The green offers students an expansive field with lawn chairs distributed throughout, where you can grab a seat before finishing a reading or double-checking a calculation.
One thing to keep in mind, though, is that as soon as the temperature rises, Cannon Green is guaranteed to be flooded with students gathering for picnics, playing spikeball, and completing coursework. While it offers an aesthetic and spacious study location, beware that your lock-in sessions may be disrupted by student revelers, tourists, and guided tour groups.

Not too far from the occasionally overcrowded Cannon Green, the lawns of Alexander Beach offer an alternative location. Situated between Richardson Auditorium and Blair Arch, Alexander Beach features close proximity to both Rockefeller and Mathey Colleges as well as the U-Store to satisfy all your snack breaks.
Alexander Beach is adjacent to Morrison Hall, which hosts an outdoor patio furnished with picnic tables overlooking the field. This spot is perfect for those who like the idea of studying outside but still need a physical desk space. I have witnessed peers sitting at these tables, laptops open, typing away. In this spot, you may still have trouble focusing, this time from a host of photoshoots.
Beware, though, that as soon as the weather heats up, large tents spring up for Princeton Preview, the series of admitted student days in April. This may put a damper on your dreams of sun-soaked afternoons studying.
Firestone Plaza is often a campus favorite for study breaks from working in the library. I’ve watched — and participated in — many snack breaks, phone calls, or quick loops through the plaza during my long nights at Firestone. But as the weather gets warmer, many students opt for the outdoor plaza over the cozy nooks of the Tiger Tea Room and the serene reading rooms.
Firestone Plaza not only allows for a study spot with proximity to any scholarly resources necessary within the library, but also provides an outdoor environment conducive to productivity. With several tables, chairs, and ledges dispersed throughout the area, it is an ideal study spot for those compiling independent research. Yet beware of the Orange Key tours that frequently stop on the steps of the sculpture “Song of the Values.”
While your memories of Frist Lawn may consist of the crowded concerts during Lawnparties, both the North and South Lawns are excellent study spaces with close proximity to countless academic buildings on campus. Decorated with lawn chairs, both fields strike a balance between lounging and locking-in.
The South Lawn features picnic tables with an extensive patio for students. This space is no longer just for eating your late meal, but also an option for snacking and studying.
My favorite outdoor study spot on campus is the Campus Club Coffee Club backyard, where you can be sure to see me on a warm day. The backyard offers a more hidden study space, with a few tables and chairs perfect for finishing an essay or writing an article. It’s also perfect for students wanting to grab a tasty pastry or invigorating beverage before getting in an aesthetically pleasing study session.
The backyard is an especially pleasant environment when a student artist is performing inside. With the doors ajar, the music provides a serene backdrop. No need for your noise-cancelling headphones and meticulously curated Spotify playlists when there are talented student performers inside. But watch out for basketballs from the Tower backyard.
For those of us residing on lower campus, Poe Field is an opportune option for reading, recreation, or relaxing. While the field does lack furniture, I have witnessed many students sprawled on blankets with laptops out on a warm day.
The spot’s proximity to New College West, Yeh, and Bloomberg Hall makes Poe Field an ideal study location for southern campus students — or those who love Choi Dining Hall.
A final study spot that is off-the-beaten-path for some is Forbes College’s Backyard. While my bias as a Forbesian may influence my preference, the yard provides a beautiful environment overlooking the Springdale Golf Club and Graduate College.
The backyard has several red lawn chairs and picnic tables for a cozy study environment. On a warm day, you can witness countless team dinners, football rounds, and students studying under the sunlight. Additionally, the close-knit community of Forbes ensures this spot is a welcoming and friendly environment for all.
Marley Hartnett-Cody is a member of the Class of 2028, a contributing writer for The Prospect, and a print designer at the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at mh8519@princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections@dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.“If you live near a grocery store but you can’t afford to shop there, then it doesn’t matter that you're not in a food desert. You’re still hungry,” wrote author and activist Mikki Kendall in her book “Hood Feminism.”
Dr. Philip Geheber from the Princeton Writing Program, an expert on the role of food in communities, cited the passage in reference to Princeton’s Nassau Street dining scene and students who elect to be independent. His writing seminar, WRI 121: The Future of Food, examines the food system infrastructure in Princeton and beyond.
Last year, about 12 percent of upperclassmen pledged to be independent  during room draw. Amidst ongoing conversations around potential changes to upperclassmen dining, independent students are already navigating often-complex financial factors related to food.
Although eating club dining plans are the most popular among upperclass undergraduates, many juniors and seniors still opt to pledge independent. University spokesperson Michael Hotchkiss reported in an email to The Daily Princetonian that 332 upperclass students chose to be independent during last year’s room draw, with that number rising following room draw.
The plan includes two dining hall swipes per week, with the rest of the week’s meals up to the students’ discretion — primarily cooking, ordering food, or eating out.
The University launched the Dining Pilot, in which a select group of students can have five meals a week at any eating club or co-op regardless of membership, with independent students in mind. With the Dining Pilot requiring participants to be hosted by a member of the clubs they’re eating at, similarly to the existing meal exchange program, the biggest change is for independent students who previously relied on guest swipes, which may be very limited, to eat with friends at eating clubs.
Many independent students tend to buy products in bulk at nearby stores such as Trader Joe’s, Costco, and Target with fellow independent students. The majority of the students the ‘Prince’ spoke to mentioned that they use TigerTransit’s Weekend Shopper bus most frequently for travel to these stores, aside from rideshare apps like Uber and Lyft.
Students have transportation options such as the aforementioned Weekend Shopper, NJTransit’s 605 bus route, and the Municipality of Princeton’s free bus service. These services provide students with access to stores such as Whole Foods, Trader Joe’s, Wegmans, Target, and more. Princeton University also offers low-cost hourly car rentals through a partnership with Enterprise Carshare.
Even with these transportation options, however, grocery shopping can be difficult. Geheber stated that people who are not used to using buses to go grocery shopping can find it challenging, noting that riding the bus can limit how much someone buys because they then have to carry the groceries back on the bus and to campus.
Additionally, some students find that there is a lack of affordable grocery options within walking distance of campus. Jasmyn Dobson ’24, an independent student, spoke to the ‘Prince’ regarding the issues with transportation, noting, “For myself I’ve found some things really hard, particularly when the buses aren’t operating regularly and I can’t get necessary food items.”
Dobson is a News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Students may instead rely on communities of independent students. Joy Cho ’24 noted, “A lot of people I know that are independent live in the same building as me, so we all look out for each other.”
The options for obtaining groceries without leaving campus seem to be limited. “The U-Store is okay for every once in a while, but like Nassau, it’s unsustainable in the long term if you’re on a strict budget,” Dobson said.
The ‘Prince’ recently investigated how U-Store prices compare to competitors, finding that it is cheaper for those who purchase a membership, than farther grocery stores like Trader Joe’s and Wegmans, which may have more variety than the U-Store.
Geheber commented, “The stores in town trend toward boutique specialty shops, with some attention to students, but students aren’t their primary customer base. Stores like Olsson’s Fine Foods on Palmer Square are much more like their neighbors on the square Hermès than they are like Wegmans.”
Even with the challenges of being independent, students cite financial reasons for the plan’s appeal. Cho remarked that being independent is “definitely more affordable than any other dining plan,” and more cost-effective compared to the dining hall or eating club plans.
For some students, another advantage of being independent is its flexibility. When on the dining hall plan as an underclassman, some found that they had difficulty finding time in their own schedule to meet the meal hours for dining halls.
One independent student, Gabriel Robare ’24, said, “I’ve often made a 2 a.m. sandwich after coming home from ‘the Street,’ or made dinner at 4:30 p.m. because I had an event to get to, or made breakfast at 11 because I was working late the night before. That’s a very helpful part of independent life.”
Robare is the Strategic Initiative Director for Archives at the ‘Prince.’
Dobson was unsure about whether the stipend provided by the University met students’ full financial need.
“I don’t think it really takes into account the real cost of living in Mercer County in general,” Dobson said.
In response to these claims, Hotchkiss stated that students’ financial aid budgets cover food costs. For all upperclass students, the standard cost is $10,034, and high-need independent students are provided refunds every semester for food.
Geheber remarked, “I've not yet determined what an ideal solution might be in Princeton, but I can say that ideally we'd create a food system that isn't entirely left to the whims of market competition for supply and that doesn’t assume universal car ownership.”
Jeannie Kim is a first-year from Chicago, Illinois and a Feature and News staff writer for the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at jk5876@princeton.edu.
Rebecca Cho is a first-year from Long Island, New York and a News staff writer for the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at rc5928@princeton.edu.
Correction: A previous version of this article misidentified pledging independent as an independent meal plan. Independent students elect not to join an eating club and not to purchase a meal plan.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.I normally board the Princeton Weekend Shopper bus at least twice a month to go to Trader Joe’s. Some days, the Shopper is quiet and nearly empty. On other days, the Shopper bustles with the conversations of friends and families journeying south along Route 1. This is how 54 minutes passed on a comfortably silent Princeton Weekend Shopper on Sunday, Nov. 10.
I grabbed the 1:08 p.m. bus, which surprisingly arrived a full two minutes early. I grabbed my usual seat: in the back, on the driver’s side. A young woman with headphones boarded a minute after me and sat opposite. The bus left precisely at 1:08 p.m.
A man and a woman whispered to each other in the front of the bus, while another man had AirPods in his ears. There was another young man who wore a running vest and also donned AirPods. The methodic click of the turning signal pierced the air as the bus left the parking lot and started its route.
People on the Shopper: 6
Lawrence was the first of three stops to graduate apartments. Usually, a handful of people board the bus at this sprawling complex of red brick and gray concrete buildings. This Sunday, though, no one got on the bus. The man in the running vest deboarded, but no one came to replace him. The pair at the front of the bus looked up for a moment before they resumed their quiet chatter.
People on the Shopper: 5
The second graduate student complex was smaller, but the wood-paneled, cabin-aesthetic buildings were more visually appealing. The design of the apartments proved to be the only source of entertainment, as very few people boarded the bus. Only one person got on the bus, while the AirPods-wearer got off.
The next location was the new graduate student apartment complex, the Meadows Apartments — a stop that was not on the route last year. The change to the route was a welcome one, as now the bus travels over the scenic Lake Carnegie to reach the apartments. The weekend before, I took the Shopper with some friends on Saturday, and the lake area was bursting with people as families, students, and community members gathered to watch a regatta. This past Sunday, the lake stretched beneath a gray sky, providing a calming sight. When the bus stopped, a man with an orange bag ran to catch it before departure.
The pair at the front of the bus who were quietly talking exited. One person boarded. With the departure of the couple, the bus became utterly, perfectly silent as passengers settled back into their own worlds.
Three people got off the bus. Two of them shouted thanks to the driver as they departed. In their wake, six people boarded the bus, including an older woman with a stuffed shopping bag. All of the people who boarded seemed to be graduate students or older community members.
As the bus pulled away from the shopping complex, a man sitting next to me, potentially in his early 30s, pulled out his phone and began a call. Bits and pieces of his phone call were discernible despite the drone of the bus’s engine.
“You can also see what deals you get on Black Friday,” he said to the person on the other end.
The woman with the shopping bag was the only person on the bus who was not using her phone.
People on the Shopper: 8
Trader Joe’s was the last shopping stop on the trip. No one got off, and no one boarded.
“A setting that charges your phone to 85 percent and then stops,” said the man on the phone.
A young man with a full backpack thanked the driver and got off.
People on the Shopper: 7
A woman, loaded down with two full reusable shopping bags and a backpack, got off. The man beside me was still on the phone.
“I didn’t see the invitation until three months later,” he said.
The man on the phone stood up and said parting words to the person on the other end as he departed the bus. An older woman with a shopping bag boarded the bus. When she entered, we locked eyes, and I smiled briefly at her. After she smiled back at me, I broke eye contact. My eyes drifted back over to her a second later, and I noticed she was still smiling at me.
During the entire journey, she maintained a consistent, wide smile. At one point, she put her face in between the floor-to-ceiling metal bars next to her seat and made a funny face at me.
I did not pay attention to how many people left or boarded the bus, as I was too focused on the smiling woman. To my shock, the woman also moved to get off the bus despite having a shopping bag. My feet led me into Wawa and away from the woman. I spied her through the window of the convenience store, waiting at the bus stop. After less than a minute of standing in the store, I made my way back to my dorm.
Overall, my Weekend Shopper trip was quiet, peaceful, and dependable. Grand excitement is not necessary for a shopping trip along New Jersey’s Route 1. While not many people boarded the orange transport vehicle, it is still well-loved and well-used by undergraduate students, graduate students, and members of the Princeton community.
Meredith Sneed is a contributing writer for The Prospect from Savannah, Ga. She can be reached at ms1290[at]princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The “drunk meal” food truck outside Frist Campus Center, which provided students with another late-night meal option, was quietly discontinued this semester following “slow sales,” according to an emailed statement to The Daily Princetonian from University spokesperson Jennifer Morrill.
The truck, which opened last September, operated on the north side of the McCosh Health Center from 11 p.m. to 3 a.m. on Thursdays, Fridays, and Saturdays. According to the University, the truck had its hours scaled back to Friday and Saturday last year due to a lack of popularity, which persisted. As a result, the Food Truck has not reopened this year.
With the truck closing, there are no longer any University-affiliated food vendors that operate after 2 a.m. Frist Late Night, or “drunk meal,” operates on Saturdays from 11 p.m. to 2 a.m. in the Frist Food Gallery. Studio ’34, located in 1976 Hall in Butler College, is open Wednesday through Sunday from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m, and the Princeton University Store at 36 University Place also closes at 2 a.m.
Wawa, located near Princeton Station, is open 24 hours. One Wawa employee told the ‘Prince’ that the store has been busy recently, and added that the weekend of Nov. 1 was “mobbed.” The store manager confirmed that Wawa has been extremely crowded on weekends, but was unsure whether this was outside the norm of previous year.
Some students, however, did not seem to mourn the loss of the truck.
Athan Zhang ’26 wrote to the ‘Prince,’ “There is no real value of having the food served in a truck. If anything, it’s a detriment because people have to be outside.”
“I do remember often passing by ‘drunk meal’ after studying at Frist … and just seeing the prices and thinking they were ridiculous,” he added. “As a former Forbesian, it made no sense for me to buy a meal there when I could get something just as good for literally half the price.”
Frankie Duryea ’26 told the ‘Prince’ in an interview, “I think it being in Frist makes more sense than it being the outside food trucks. It’s safer for drunk kids that don’t need to be cold and stumbling around, they can sit down and they can get water inside.”
In an email to the ‘Prince,’ Dhruv Raghuraman ’27 wrote, “I am mostly ambivalent because I hardly went.”
However, he added that he “knew a lot of people who appreciated having somewhere between the Street where they could rest and eat after a long night out.”
Enzo Kho ’26, Undergraduate Student Government Social Chair, told the ‘Prince’ in an interview that going to drunk meal was more convenient for him, compared to Wawa and Studio 34.
“I lived in Whitman … so drunk meal was usually the easiest one,” he said. However, the long lines often deterred him.
He noted that drunk meal accepts Dining Points, as did the food truck. Wawa does not.
Morrill wrote to the ‘Prince’ that, “Dining Services welcomes any feedback from students to help guide next steps, particularly regarding menu items they’d like to see return to Frist.”
Emily Leon is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Olivia Sanchez is an associate News editor for the ‘Prince.’ She is from New Jersey and often covers the graduate school and academic departments.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.
Within a matter of days, two fires occurred on or near campus, both requiring the attention of firefighters.
The most recent incident unfolded in the late afternoon on Sunday, Sept. 24 after an electric scooter was left in the study room of a dorm in Whitman College. According to students who spoke with The Daily Princetonian, the incident was caused by a wheel on a scooter which wouldn’t stop spinning, creating soot and causing the tire to fall apart.
Fadima Tall ’27, whose neighbor owned the scooter in question, told the ‘Prince’ that the spinning wheel “burned a hole in the ground,” setting off the fire alarm in the building and causing multiple fire trucks to arrive on the scene.
Some of the damage was visible in pictures shared by Barstool Princeton on Instagram, which showed the wheel created substantial soot and other debris through its disintegration.
“If you analyze the Barstool photos, it doesn’t look like a hole was created, just soot,” Louisa Gheorghita ’26, who was at Whitman when the incident happened, told the ‘Prince.’
Gheorghita is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
According to Tall, her scooter made contact with the malfunctioning scooter, leaving both smoking. Tall added that she and the others in Baker Hall were then questioned by firefighters and Public Safety.
This incident comes weeks after the University implemented new restrictions on scooters on campus, prohibiting the use of personal electric vehicles (PEVs) during “peak hours.”
University staff and students acted swiftly to the incident, alerting local authorities. The alarms went off in Baker Hall/1981 Hall at 5:35 p.m., and fire trucks arrived shortly after.
This came days after an oven caught fire on Wednesday, Sept. 20 at the nearby Wawa on Alexander Street. According to William Gil ’27, the fire alarm went off at 11:20 p.m., and firefighters arrived 20 minutes later.
“Everyone was shocked but was also laughing because it was an unexpected event,” Gil said.
Nobody was injured as a result of either fire.
Hiba Samdani is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.For many Princeton students, “course offerings day,” the day when classes for the following semester are posted by the Registrar, can be a day of frenzied excitement. This year, some celebrated three days early when a post from the morning of Monday, March 25 on the social media app Fizz claimed to leak Princeton’s fall 2024 course offerings. Courses are set to be officially released on Thursday, March 28.
“The University makes course listings available through its website and through an API that allows other applications to disseminate this information,” University Spokesperson Jennifer Morrill wrote in a statement to The Daily Princetonian. “It appears the API allowed the data to be accessed a few days before the official release date of Thursday, March 28. The API access issue has been addressed.”
Morrill also added that “there is no sensitive or private data accessible through this API.”
Adam Kelch ’24 and Joshua Lau ’26, co-president and developer for TigerApps, respectively, provided some perspective on how such a leak may have occurred in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ TigerApps is a student-run organization that develops and manages applications, including popular course planning apps like TigerSnatch, TigerJunction, and Princeton Courses.
According to Lau, a number of people have access to this API for student applications, whether it’s for student-run programs like TigerJunction or for COS 333: Advanced Programming Techniques, a computer science class in which students can code their own apps. Access to the API can be granted by a professor or via a request to the Office of Information Technology.
When asked for comment, the student who conducted the leak and who wished to remain anonymous said in a comment to the ‘Prince’, “let Compass guide your way.” Compass is a student-made app made for those wishing to “explore courses, read reviews, and manage your four-year course schedule” according to the website’s homepage. The site did not seem to be functional at time of publication.
The student created the data file at 5:56 a.m., and the Fizz post announcing “Fall 2024 course offerings 1.0 leaked” was made shortly afterwards at 6:02 a.m. by an anonymous user. The post was taken down about four hours later, and the file itself was deleted soon after. Another Fizz post, seemingly from a different anonymous user, quickly popped up at 12:30 p.m., preserving the information in a Dropbox folder.
A Fizz post shares the link to the leaked list after the original post was deleted.
The file likely contains an incomplete list of courses. None of the listed courses have a primary designation of Asian American Studies (ASA), Center for Human Values (CHV), Czech (CZE), Freshman Seminars (FRS), Global Health and Policy (GHP), History of Science (HOS), Judaic Studies (JDS), Latin American Studies (LAS), Population Studies (POP), or Ukrainian (UKR). For example, Freshman Seminars always have the primary designation FRS, but there are no classes with this designation on the leaked list.
According to an analysis by The ‘Prince’, the leaked list contains 962 unique course listings. This number is significantly lower than the number of courses available last fall, further suggesting the list is missing some courses. “Students are advised to wait until March 28 before searching for Fall 2024 course listings, as they may still change,” Morrill wrote.
“An API is basically a way for computer programs to get data from a separate source,” Lau explained. He added that the University stores course data in two different APIs — one more public-facing API used by the Registrar website, and another API which is used for student applications. In order for the data to be publicly available, the API must have an established endpoint.
What likely happened to allow the data to be leaked, according to Lau, was that “the endpoint for the new courses was available [in the student-facing API] at some point this morning.”
“A lot of the student apps that monitor the API … have a recurring ping to this API to see if a new term of courses is released, and then we parse those. So maybe that’s how it was discovered,” Kelch added.
Annie Rupertus is a head News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Christopher Bao is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Head Data editor Andrew Bosworth contributed reporting.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
This Thursday, March 28, marks this year’s “Ivy day,” when a select group of applicants across the country will receive acceptances to the eight Ivy League colleges, which includes Princeton. These future members of the Class of 2028 will join a long line of Princetonians who came before them.
However, students were able to access an API containing the University’s admissions data two days before it was meant to be released. This follows a similar “Fizz” leak, through which Fall 2024 course offerings were prematurely accessed and released to the student body.
Attached below is the list of students accepted to Princeton’s Class of 2028.
PRINCETON 2028 ADMISSIONS DATA
Spencer Bauman ’25 is a head Humor editor studying Chemical and Biological Engineering.
Sophia Varughese ’26 is a head Humor editor studying Astrophysics.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.The Class of 2026 woke up bright and early at 7:30 a.m. on Thursday, April 20 to enroll in courses for the fall 2023 semester on TigerHub, Princeton’s course enrollment platform. First-years quickly encountered issues, however, when the website crashed for many students and some alleged that they couldn’t enroll until at least 15 minutes after enrollment opened.
The Class of 2026 is the largest class to ever attend Princeton, and represents the first step in the University’s planned four-year expansion of the undergraduate student body. In fall 2022, despite the increase in the student body, roughly the same number of undergraduate classes were offered as recent semesters. Though many classes later expanded the number of available student seats, many introductory classes, such as CHM 201: General Chemistry I and PHY 103: General Physics I exceeded their average enrollment numbers.
Despite this, in a statement to The Daily Princetonian, University Spokesperson Ahmad Rizvi wrote that “the increased class size was factored into this year's [TigerHub] stress testing and did not contribute to the issue.”
He explained that a “technical problem” slowed the registration process in the morning, which led to some students receiving error messages.
“The problem was resolved quickly and all but 50 Class of 2026 students had registered by 8:15 a.m,” Rizvi wrote.
Although students were eventually able to enroll in their courses, the ‘Prince’ found that some popular and core courses were difficult to get into, which caused frustration for some members of the Class of 2026.
Myrah Charles ’26 spoke with the ‘Prince’ about how she was unable to join CWR 203: Creative Writing (Fiction).
Though creative writing (CWR) courses have been met with higher demand for a limited number of seats following the program dropping the application requirement for introductory CWR courses last spring, for Charles, missing out on a spot in one of the program’s coveted classes created uncertainty.
“It is what it is,” Charles said.
The requirements for earning a Creative Writing certificate include taking two 200- level classes by the end of sophomore year and two 300- level courses by the end of junior year, however the program states that in “unusual circumstances,”  a portion of this requirement can be waived.
In spite of Charles’s current frustration with course registration, she remains optimistic that the Creative Writing program can accommodate students who don’t meet all the prerequisites prior to their junior year.
“I can’t see them denying a person the opportunity to get the certificate with the current system we have now,” Charles added.
According to TigerSnatch, a student-created app created that allows students to receive email and text notifications when a spot opens in a full course, CWR 203 is currently the third most subscribed course. CWR 201: Creative Writing (Poetry) closely follows as the sixth most subscribed course. Toggling “subscribe” on a course activates email and text notifications.

ORF 309/EGR 309/MAT 380: Probability and Stochastic Systems, a required course for Operations Research and Financial Engineering majors, is the seventh most subscribed course For the fall 2023 semester, there are currently 1,041 subscribed users on TigerSnatch with 3,322 subscriptions. 227 courses have subscriptions.
SPI 298: Introduction to Public Policy, Authority, Incentive, and Persuasion is a required course for School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA) majors that must be taken either in the fall of sophomore or junior year; all spots were filled quickly, leaving many students uncertain.
“I spent the morning constantly checking TigerSnatch with concern, which interrupted my ability to focus during classes today,” Rebecca Cunningham ’26 said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’
Cunningham is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince’.
Hours later, citing enrollment demand, more spots were opened up for students to join the course.
However, following the course’s increase in capacity, students who were still unable to enroll in the course received a message from Joanna Kovac, the academic coordinator of SPIA. Kovac notified students that they were on a waiting list, and that the course’s capacity may increase in the near future. Kovac additionally advised students to enroll in the course if seats become available during the May 1-5 add/drop period, and that the course will be available to prospective SPIA majors when they are juniors if they do not have the opportunity to take the course this fall.
First-years also took to Fizz, a private anonymous discussion app, to share their opinions on the TigerHub crash. Over 1,000 students upvoted a post that said “It should be a crime that the number one school in the country still uses TigerHub.”
Rizvi explained that there is “extensive preparation and testing” performed before each course registration cycle.
“We will investigate improving the course registration performance in the future to reduce any potential slow-downs,” Rizvi wrote.
Justus Wilhoit is an assistant news editor for the ‘Prince.’
Lia Opperman is an associate news editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: This article has been updated to remove a misleading statistic about texts sent by TigerSnatch.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.For Princeton students, laundry is more than just a chore. It’s a daunting weekly or bi-weekly puzzle.
Clothes washing — and drying, folding, and putting away — are crammed into ever-busy schedules. That’s not to mention the added challenge of finding a free machine.
In the past two years, there have been 145 posts about laundry on Fizz, a social media app for Princeton students, including many complaints about the limited laundry facilities. Examples include “Pls get your laundry when its done” and “i have no shame in throwing your laundry out bc why aren’t you setting a timer?” Each residential college and upperclass dorm offers varying numbers of washers and dryers.
We broke down the availability of laundry machines per college, giving insights into the washer and dryer situation and discussing alternative services available to students.
Princeton’s residential colleges provides free access to washers and dryers, but some are better equipped than others. To understand the availability and accessibility of laundry at Princeton, we analyzed machine counts for the underclassmen population to calculate washer-to-student ratios. During our analysis, we found discrepancies between the washer and dryer counts on online floor plans versus the actual number of machines. To ensure accuracy, we manually collected data by visiting each laundry room and counting the machines. Data of the number of students living in each residential college was obtained from the residential college websites, which provide estimates.
Butler College offers the highest washer-to-student ratio at around 1:20. Whitman College offers the most dryers of any college at 40. The laundry setups of Butler and Whitman stand out from the other colleges — Whitman, in particular, has ten smaller laundry rooms with around two washing machines and four dryers each.
“It’s convenient if not many people are using it, and then you can wash it very quickly, but [it can also be] really inconvenient,” Emily Zhang ’27, a resident of Whitman College, told The Daily Princetonian. “For example, sometimes I’ll have my laundry, like, be done washing, but then there’s no dryers available for the next hour, so I have to, like, bring it down to the basement, where there’s more dryers.”
Other residential colleges offer fewer but larger laundry facilities, with an average of 2.8 laundry rooms per residential college across Forbes, Mathey, Rockefeller, New College West, and Yeh College.
While Butler and Whitman students enjoy better access, residents of other colleges may need to strategize their laundry schedules. Rockefeller College students face tighter competition, with a washer-to-student ratio hovering around 1:50, the lowest among all colleges. New College West and Yeh both feature two large laundry rooms with around 20 washers and 20 dryers each with a washer-to-student ratio of around 1:26.
The washer to student ratio in upperclassmen housing is much lower than that of the residential colleges. There are thirteen laundry rooms across the eighteen upperclassmen dorms, sending students in dorms without laundry facilities spinning. Students in Cuyler Hall, for example, have no option but to go outside to either 1903 or Brown Hall to do their laundry.
Julia Shin ’26 began living in Cuyler Hall this year. According to Shin, “it’s not terrible, because I’m on the first floor of Cuyler, and then the Brown laundry room is on the first floor of Brown, but because it’s three outdoor staircases, it’s a bit of lugging.” She elaborated that “I’ve never done my laundry when it’s raining outside.”
Of the upperclassmen dorms, Scully Hall had the most laundry machines with a total of 10 washers and 16 dryers. Unlike the underclassmen laundry rooms, most of the laundry rooms in upperclassmen housing have red bins for neglected laundry, and it’s common to see laundry lying on floors and on top of the machines.
“[Laundry is] convenient if not many people are using it and then you can wash it very quickly,” Zhang said. “But it’s really inconvenient like for example sometimes I’ll have my laundry, like, be done washing, but then there’s no dryers available for the next hour.”
This semester, around 150 students opted to enroll in the Princeton Student Agencies’ laundry services, which wash and fold laundry for their student customers.
Hannah Choi is a contributing Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Any Princeton student that wishes to enter Tiger Inn or Ivy Club on a Thursday or Saturday night must present the formidable bouncers with the secret password: their Hotspot QR code.
Hotspot, an app launched in the fall of 2022 by three Princeton students, Ayo Oguntula ’23, Dylan Porges ’23, and Marie Sirenko ’25, has quickly replaced the printed list system for entering parties at several of the University’s eating clubs, as well as at Greek Life on 5 other college campuses.
Hotspot is just one of several widely-used, student-developed apps that aim to improve campus life.
While Hotspot is focused on Princeton's social scene, TigerJunction, built by Joshua Lau '26, has helped students to prepare their academic schedules for fall course selection — an important tool, as TigerHub has faced technical difficulties in the past.
While most campus-oriented apps are created in COS 333: Advanced Programming Techniques, Princeton’s web application development course, some students pursue such projects independently of the course. Many of these apps are centralized through TigerApps, a student-run organization that maintains and supports student-developed web applications on campus.
The creators of both Hotspot and TigerJunction spent months developing their applications independently, looking to enhance the student experience through technology. The Daily Princetonian spoke with the developers of these applications to learn more about the development process, how they help students, and what the future holds for these digital mainstays of the Princeton experience.
In November 2021, juniors Oguntula and Porges were looking for a designer for the beta version of their startup, Hotspot, and a mutual friend directed them to Sirenko, who was, at that time, a first-year. Hotspot was created as a solution to the “inefficiencies of the eating club system,” Sirenko explained.
Hotspot — not to be confused with the University’s gray devices used to validate student proxes, which bear the same name — is a tool for managing guests for social events. If an eating club is hosting a party, it can add its members to the event and give them the same number of guest spots. Then, guests use the QR code on their invitation to gain access to the event.
“The social chairs [of eating clubs] would be using five different platforms, like sending a Google form to put guests on the list,” Sirenko said. “They would send an email to publicize it, text about updates in the GroupMe, and have people check paper lists at the door. If it was a ticketed event, they’d have to use a fully different platform. With Hotspot, you can do all of that in one place.”
Hotspot is designed to manage the sweet spot between large, ticketed events and small, friend group functions.
“There wasn’t really something in between that space, where it had the functionality that you need [for an event], but had more of a casual, friendly atmosphere,” Sirenko explained.
As a first-year, Lau, a self-taught programmer and ECE major, was frustrated with ReCal’s outdated features. With TigerJunction, he looked to integrate multiple TigerApps used for course selection into one app. Lau released the beta version in the fall of 2023 and debugged it during Wintersession of this year. It officially became a TigerApp in the beginning of the spring semester.
Lau’s improved version of ReCal contains advanced search features, allowing students to search by distribution requirements, by courses that don’t conflict with ones already selected, by levels, and by ratings from Princeton Courses.
While the Hotspot team had a strong vision for the function of the app, the beta version didn’t work well. Sirenko and the two developers redesigned it from scratch.
“We didn’t even use the same code, we kind of took the same feature ideas but completely remapped it so that it’d be user-focused,” Sirenko said.
When they launched again a year later, in the fall of 2022, they enhanced the app to include social features, allowing users to see what events their friends are attending or have attended. The app also has built-in privacy, hiding the activity of users that aren’t mutual friends.
As the designer, Sirenko was responsible for doing product research, communicating with users to determine their needs, and designing features in the app to fit those needs. Once she conceptualized what the app would look like, she created sketches and then mockups on Adobe XD.
Sirenko, currently studying neuroscience and art, applied the intersections of consumer behavior and art to her designs.
“In connection to my academic background, I love to see the ways that you can apply principles from behavior and decision-making research in order to make apps that are very intuitive and human-centered,” Sirenko said.
After Sirenko completed her designs, the developers looked at a particular design feature, like buttons, and implemented the visual elements like the font color, height, width, and shadow effect.
Johnny Ramirez ’26, one of the group’s two front-end developers, explains he loves working on the static features of the app, while others, like animation, are more difficult for him from a technical standpoint.
“It’s been really cool working on the story feature,” Ramirez said. “After you go to a party, you can post pictures and upload them and see all your friends’ pictures. It was really funny because when we were testing it, [the team] took horrible selfies and we could see each other.”
Hotspot team members also use their own product to access the social scene on campus, informing their work on the application.
“I think we’ve benefited that everyone who works on the app uses it. It’s a living thing,” Ramirez noted. “It’s helpful because if anything pops up, either a friend or one of us will point it out and we can address it pretty quickly.”
Ramirez taught himself React Native, the framework used for the app, in high school. He also previously developed the mobile app for The Daily Princetonian, his first project.
“After [the ‘Prince’ app], I felt pretty confident in my skills, so I had a smooth transition into Hotspot,” Ramirez said.
Some of the features the team improved, for instance, were the placement of the QR code and event information. Initially, accessing the QR code at the door was a three-step process, making it confusing and time-consuming for users. Additionally, the team made the event information visible immediately after users open the app.
For Lau, creating TigerJunction took three completely new attempts from scratch.
“The first attempt was my first attempt at making large-scale software, but it was a terrible mess. The second attempt was a little bit better, but then I decided to do it from scratch again. I arguably could have fixed it up and built on top of it, but in software development you can always restart wherever you are, because you never have a perfect code base. You have to just choose a moment where it's good enough to build more advanced features on top of it,” Lau said.
The product of Lau’s process, TigerJunction is the “ugly duckling of the TigerApps,” he said. It is the only TigerApp that uses Svelte as a framework, and the only one that did not begin as a COS 333 project.
“Most of the other apps coming out of COS 333 are a lot more self-contained,” Lau said. “They’re constrained by the class [timeframe], which does not allow students to take bigger risks,” Lau explained. “I initially planned to get this out in two months, but it’s been nine months [as of April 2024], and it’s still developing.”
Lau said the process of coding is starkly different from what most people envision.
“It’s a very iterative experience, going back and forth between coding and planning,” Lau noted. “You watch a hacker movie, and they’re sitting there going like, ‘I’m in’, you know, but that’s like 10 percent of the work — 90 percent is planning.”
While Lau had an ambitious vision for TigerJunction before beginning to program it, he radically changed his initial plans in the current version of the app.
“I drew out this giant diagram with everything it was going to be. Fifty percent of things have changed, 50 percent have stayed the same,” Lau said. “It’s always changing.”
During the seven or so months it took him to create and launch the app, Lau’s progress was nonlinear.
“Exams and losing motivation get in the way. In reality, its plan, execute, ‘oh no, there’s a bug, I’ll save that for later,’ let’s do the next feature because that’s more exciting than debugging,” Lau said.
Since its launch, Lau has run into several roadblocks, which has forced him to always be vigilant over the app, especially during the add/drop period.
“I want to sincerely apologize to anyone who used the app during winter break, because you probably ran into one of the million issues at the time,” Lau joked. “But there was this thing where if you went into the application, and you had zero things in your schedule, it would just crash, which is bad because any new user immediately starts with zero.”
While debugging can be frustrating, Lau invites the challenge.
“[Debugging] is kind of like a new puzzle to solve every single time. It's not like a p-set where you submit the solution, and if it’s wrong, you get zero points. If I can see it doesn’t work, I can try something different,” Lau explained.
Aside from TigerJunction, Lau is a developer for the TigerApps team, helping to onboard new apps which entails transferring databases, changing the hosting infrastructure, communicating with USG for any necessary funding, and fixing bugs. However, because TigerJunction was created entirely by Lau and is constantly in development he has maintained ownership over it, despite its status as a TigerApp.
“Pretty much like if I disappeared off the face of the earth today, no one can maintain it,” Lau said. “Like, it would just crash and burn at some point, probably during add/drop.
Ramirez does not use Hotspot for his own eating club, Cottage Club. Beyond TI and Ivy, Ramirez says Princeton’s eating clubs have been slow to change their technologies, largely due to pressure from higher-up restrictions, such as from their grad boards.
“They have a lot of concern for what kind of features they would want to add,” Ramirez said, “but they’re also very hesitant to introduce new technology when they already have a working system.”
Adding another eating club would not dramatically change the Hotspot’s business anyway, because many students on campus already use Hotspot. Instead, the team is prioritizing expanding to other campuses.
A year and a half after its launch, the application has grown to 9,000 users across 5 campuses. Most recently, Hotspot has added a ticketing feature the team launched for ticketed events at Yale and UCLA.
In the future, the team hopes to encourage more activity within smaller groups than eating clubs, like friend groups.
“We’ve had birthdays, but would love it if people hosted like a little movie night. We did a big revamp this summer in terms of the social features and have been seeing more of that [activity] so that’s something I'm excited about,” Sirenko explained. “Our main goal is to make Hotspot a place where people can spontaneously connect with their friends and do more fun things that they wouldn’t have done otherwise.”
When he’s not managing other students’ apps, Lau is working on improving and expanding TigerJunction. His next addition will be CourseGenie, which he plans to emulate TigerPath, a four-year course planner, but still integrated with Recal+. His ultimate goal is for TigerJunction to incorporate all TigerApps for course selection into one multifaceted tool, allowing students to view course evaluations, make multi-year plans, and set up notifications for open spots in full courses.
Lau plans to expand the features of existing TigerApps, like TigerPath, in CourseGenie, allowing students to select multiple majors, as well as certificates and minors, to chart their progress and different potential paths. The app will feature a big table view, an easier way to search for classes, including information like distribution requirements, their rating, and how likely it is to fill. He also hopes this next stage of TigerJunction will be able to incorporate prerequisites to advise students on classes as a supplement to academic advisers, potentially integrating ChatGPT in some capacity.
“It won’t be good as an adviser who has knowledge in their field of expertise, but it will provide a different insight,” Lau said. “No adviser has actually read through the description of all 1400 courses across time and every single review they have.”
After dedicating 150 hours to coding TigerJunction, Lau is enthusiastic about coding for its potential to create solutions to problems he sees in the real world. On campus, that means providing students with a resource to support the development of their academic careers.
“I fundamentally don’t love to code,” Lau notes. “I love to make things. Software engineering is the easiest way to create a solution to a problem. You have the power to see a creation you want to see exist, no matter how stupid or big the idea is.”
Valentina Moreno is an assistant Features editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any corrections requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Students eagerly planning for next semester’s courses now have a new app to craft their schedule. TigerJunction, created by Joshua Lau ’26, plans to integrate three different apps — ReCal+, CourseGenie, and ReqTree — into a single platform. Using the application, students will eventually be able to plan their semester schedules, map out prerequisites, and create four-year course plans. ReCal+, the semester course planning tool, is currently the only functional portion available for users.
TigerJunction comes as some of the most popular applications on TigerApps — a platform run by Undergraduate Student Government (USG) for student-built programs — continue to age. PrincetonCourses, an app to view course reviews, and TigerPath, an app to map out degree requirements, were COS 333 projects in the spring of 2017 and the spring of 2018, respectively, while TigerBook, a directory with student pictures, is currently being rebuilt. Lau is also a developer for TigerApps. Notably, Lau’s app began as a COS 333: Advanced Programing Techniques project in the spring of 2014.
According to Lau, TigerJunction had about 400 users prior to the release of spring course offerings, and the application now has about 900 users.
The initial inspiration to create TigerJunction came from deficiencies that Lau noticed in ReCal, one of the most popular course selection tools among students. For example, many students have experienced difficulties loading ReCal in their browsers leading up to the course enrollment deadline. TigerJunction, however, intends to resolve these issues by using a serverless hosting style.
“The way ReCal is currently hosted is it has its own dedicated virtual machine, which means that once the resources of that machine fill up, it stops working and someone has to manually increase the size of the machine to make it work again,” Lau said in an interview with The Daily Princetonian. “When nobody is using TigerJunction, the server essentially does not exist, but when a thousand people are using TigerJunction at once, the server scales up to meet the requirements of all of those users.”
Beyond resolving technical issues, Lau also incorporated additional features into ReCal+, such as searching by classes without schedule conflicts.
“The reason I started using the app was because it was very inconvenient for me to transition between multiple different sites while selecting my courses. TigerJunction provides a central location for the different sites I use like Princeton Courses, the registrar, and ReCal all combined into one,” said David Wang ’27, a user of the ReCal+ portion of TigerJunction.
Other users enjoy the ability to customize the interface of TigerJunction by switching to ‘dark mode’ and making their own theme.
“I love how you can turn on night mode and make the screen background dark,” Helena Richardson ’26 told the ‘Prince.’ “I also really enjoy the filters, and it’s less glitchy than ReCal.”
Besides ReCal+, TigerJunction is also based on features from the existing TigerApps of TigerSnatch, TigerMap, TigerPath, and Princeton Courses. Lau saw an opportunity to consolidate all their features in one app to make the student experience of selecting courses easier.
CourseGenie, the portion of TigerJunction that will allow students to create four-year plans based on their intended majors, minors, and certificates once it is released, was primarily inspired by TigerPath. While the first phase of CourseGenie will be similar to TigerPath, Lau said that the final version will allow students to filter out classes that students don’t have the prerequisites for and “recommend students courses they might enjoy based on courses they’ve taken before. According to Lau, an “AI-driven course suggestion” will also be incorporated into CourseGenie within the next few years.
“I think the CourseGenie part could be useful so that I don’t accidentally not graduate,” Alex Picoult ’26 said.
“By collecting data over the years about which courses students liked and which courses students didn’t like, as well as things like course ratings and evaluations, I want to create a system that essentially acts like an academic advisor,” he said. “It could ask students questions, and with that provide them with courses that not only match their potential plans but also match what they might enjoy in a class.”
ReqTree, the third portion of TigerJunction, will help students visualize relationships between class prerequisites. ReqTree is also planned for release in January.
“Let’s say you want to take a certain certificate, but this certificate has a requirement that you need a bunch of prerequisites for. Right now, it’s hard to envision all of the prerequisites,” Lau said. “RecTree is going to visualize what your prerequisites are, so if you have your path, it will show what prerequisites you need to get to that path.”
Since TigerJunction’s launch, Lau has been working to incorporate feedback from users.
“Something I added very recently was integrated professors, so you can now see professors in the advanced search settings,” he said. “That was something one of my friends requested. I always want to be adding new features.”
Ava Fonss is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Stagnant student engagement in the issues that have come before Undergraduate Student Government (USG) has been a consistent topic of debate. “The apathy many students have towards USG, an apathy USG has allowed to fester, has serious consequences,” wrote now-USG President Stephen Daniels ’24 in a guest contribution to The Daily Princetonian in 2021.
The USG Senate met on Sunday to weigh a new method of student engagement, reminiscent of the direct democracy that is constitutional in the Swiss Confederation.
Alex Sorgini ’26 delivered a presentation about TigerPoll, an app which aims to be a “platform where questions originating from USG or student groups can be answered by the student body,” according to an informational document shared with USG prior to the meeting. Developed by Sorgini and Caroline Rasmussen ’26, the app was created in response to a desire for student groups to be able to access “concrete data to make their cases or bolster their efforts for change,” as also stated in the document.
Sorgini serves as USG’s Chief Elections Manager, but gave the presentation outside of his formal role.
Student engagement with the app was identified as the largest potential issue by Sorgini, who expressed a hope that members of student organizations would be encouraged to use the platform when their own organizations submitted questions.
USG would be among student groups using the app to gauge student reactions to various issues. The extent to which USG might use such a platform to seek feedback on their weekly agenda was not addressed. The relevant questions from this week include the app itself, consideration of an amendment on processes to receive Projects Board funding, and a disbursement for money for events surrounding the Yale football game which passed via a unanimous vote.
Sorgini proposed that TigerPoll be integrated under the TigerApps umbrella currently managed by USG. Existing TigerApps include recal.io, Princeton Courses, TigerSnatch, and TigerPath. He also proposed that an ad-hoc committee be established for the development of the app. He told the Senate the app was about 70 to 80 percent done, and could potentially launch prior to the end of the semester.
Student engagement with the app was identified as the largest potential issue by Sorgini, who stated that he hoped, given that “student groups can submit questions,” there would be a trickle down effect wherein members of said groups would be encouraged to use the platform. Undergraduate Student Life Committee (USLC) Chair Caitlin McNally ’24 suggested that the app be paired with Tigers in Town programming, where students would only get access to vouchers after downloading the app, given that is how “[other] apps get downloaded.”
Sorgini also clarified the app would not identify students’ names to the greatest extent possible, and demographic data would be limited to identifying residential college and class year. Survey questions would also be approved by a committee prior to their upload on the app.
The Senate approved the ad hoc committee to consider the app in a unanimous vote.
The group then entered a contentious discussion around whether or not student groups should have to show up at meetings to receive large funding grants from Projects Boards. Currently, student groups are not required to send a representative to a Senate meeting prior to the approval of any Projects Board funding request. When groups do send representatives, Senate members are able to ask them questions about the events for which they are requesting funds.
In last week’s meeting, the Senate approved a funding request by South Asian Students Association (SASA) and HackPrinceton though neither of the groups sent a representative to answer questions, prompting Senator Braiden Aaronson ’25 to propose an amendment to the Projects Board charter that would require a student representative to attend a meeting in person or at least be available via text during the meeting.
Treasurer Walker Penfield ’25 argued against the amendment, saying that the “Projects Board approval meeting serves as an opportunity for student groups to propose their ideas for funding and receive approval from Projects Board.” He added, “during my time in the Senate, I have found the questioning of Projects Board [requesters by the Senate] to be unfruitful and redundant” given that Projects Board members have already discussed with members — and approved internally — every request that comes before the Senate. Only requests exceeding $1,000 are brought for a Senate vote.
The vote for the amendment ultimately did not pass, with Aaronson himself voting against it.
In favor: Senator Quin Freeny ’26, Senator Jack Ganley ’26, U-Councilor Judah Guggeinheim ’25, U-Councilor Daniel Shaw ’25, Proxy for U-Councilor Anuj Krishnan ’27, U-Councilor Roberto Lachner ’26
Against: Aaronson, Daniels, DEI Chair Uma Fox ’26, Senator Mariam Latif ’24, U-Councilor Chloe Long ’26, Senator and Mental Health Committee Chair Noah Luch ’24, Senator Luke Martin ’24, Penfield, U-Councilor Aishwarya Swamidurai ’26, Academics Chair Srista Tripathi ’25
Abstaining: Class Senator Ned Dockery ’25, Diya Kraybill ’25 (proxy for Social Chair Avi Attar ’25), U- Councilor Karen Villanueva ’27
A $5,000 increase in funding for the supplemental athletics working group was also approved unanimously, given the “demand for increased opportunities” with the suggestion of “Campus Club events before the official tailgate” for the upcoming Yale football game.
USG meetings are held on Sundays from 5–6 p.m. in Aaron Burr Hall 219 and are open for all students to attend.
Nandini Krishnan is a contributing News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As classes recommence for the spring 2024 semester, The Daily Princetonian data section took a look ahead, examining a common end-of-semester ritual for Princeton students: course evaluations. At the end of each semester, the University encourages students to submit numerical course evaluations, rating their courses on a scale from one to five in various categories.
Questions in the survey ask about various aspects of the course experience, including “what advice would you give to another student taking this course?” These evaluations are available for the reference of future students who consider enrolling in a given course, as resources such as PrincetonCourses.com allow students to easily compare numerical course ratings.
However, the utility of this kind of evaluation has broadly been called into question recently, due to its inherent subjectivity. For example, the difference in quality between a score of “1” versus “2” may differ among students — this makes comparing average “Course Quality” ratings particularly problematic. The ‘Prince’ set out to test a metric that avoids the shortcomings of numerical evaluations: sentiment analysis via natural language processing (NLP).
The Computer Science (COS) department scored an average of 4.02/5. As a fraction, 4.02/5 would suggest a high course rating — this is the highest average numerical evaluation of any sequence analyzed. However, out of all written course evaluations for intro COS, only approximately 66 percent were classified as positive.
RoBERTa, the type of machine learning model we used, is pre-trained on thousands of books and English Wikipedia articles. The exact model we used is a version of RoBERTa, trained on an additional 58 million tweets. The differences between Princeton course evaluations and the data RoBERTa was trained on (books, articles, and tweets) may have affected our findings; tweets have a significant amount of linguistic noise, and this model is unfamiliar with Princeton-specific terminology (i.e. PDF, PSet, precept, etc.).
Introductory and core courses
Introductory courses, which are often required for students pursuing a particular degree track or concentration, are among the largest courses offered at the University. We evaluated introductory course sequences across various popular departments, such as Computer Science (COS) and Economics (ECO), the two departments that awarded the most degrees in the 2022–2023 academic year. For some departments, like COS, the sentiment of written reviews was consistently positive; for others, like ECO, findings varied.
The percentage of students leaving a negative written evaluation of COS 126, COS 226, and COS 217 only rose above ten percent twice since fall 2014: once in fall 2018, and again in fall 2022. Positivity in written feedback increased during the pandemic by roughly 11 percent, before returning to pre-pandemic levels. In spring 2023, 65 percent of students left a positive review, 26 percent were neutral, and only nine percent were negative. In comparison, the average numerical evaluations from fall 2014 to spring 2023 were 3.96 for COS 126, 4.29 for COS 226, and 3.82 for COS 217, for a total average of 4.02 out of 5. This numerical rating shows a potentially more positive rating than the comments show.
COS 226: Algorithms and Data Structures consistently accounts for a large proportion of the positive reviews.
“I appreciated the fact that our programming assignments were relevant to real world applications,” wrote Rayan Elahmadi ’26 in an email to the ‘Prince.’ Elahmadi cited assignments such as Autocomplete, where students implement a text auto-completion algorithm à la Google search, as particularly applicable.
Before the end of junior year, all economics students at Princeton are required to complete ECO 300/310: Microeconomics, ECO 301/311: Macroeconomics, and ECO 302/312: Econometrics. Our findings for these courses varied — from fall 2015 to spring 2016, the proportion of students leaving a positive review for those six classes decreased from 54 percent to 29 percent.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, reviews gained positivity before gradually returning to pre-COVID-19 levels. In the spring of 2023, 44 percent of all submissions were positive, 40 percent were neutral, and 16 percent were negative. To contrast with the typical numerical averages, over our period of interest the core ECO classes scored an average of 3.48 out of 5.
The overall trend is slightly positive for introductory BSE math and physics courses, with an increase in the proportion of positive reviews from 33 percent in Fall 2014 to 45 percent in spring 2023. In the spring of 2020, there was a noticeable jump in negative reviews. From fall 2014 to spring 2023, the average numerical rating for these courses was 3.23.
The EGR sequence, which began in 2017, was introduced as an alternative to the traditional math and physics courses for first-year engineering students. Responses were very positive in the first several semesters — in spring 2018 and fall 2019, the proportion of positive reviews approached 80 percent of all written evaluations submitted, compared to roughly 45 percent for traditional BSE introductory courses.
There were noticeable oscillations in the data from fall to spring semesters – in some instances there was ten percent more negative feedback in the spring compared to the previous fall. Only two EGR sequence courses are offered in the spring: EGR 153: Electricity, Magnetism, and Photonics, and EGR 154: Linear Systems. The other three, EGR 151: Mechanics, Energy, and Waves, EGR 152: The Mathematics of Shape and Motion, and EGR 156: Multivariable Calculus, tend to receive more positive feedback.
The spring 2023 semester showed an all-time negativity high for the EGR sequence. The average numerical review for the EGR sequence was 3.84 out of 5.
Myles Anderson is an assistant Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Additional consulting provided by emerita head Web Design and Development editor Anika Maskara.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.In SPI 499: Making an Exoneree, students have no papers, problem sets, readings, or exams. They just work to exonerate wrongfully imprisoned people. Students in the class “spend an intensive semester as investigative journalists, documentarians, and social justice activists.” As an action-centered class, SPI 499 is a testament to the fact that civic engagement is something that can be incorporated into our everyday learning.
More of Princeton’s classes across all departments should offer explicit civic engagement or social justice components. In an institution that prides itself on being “in the nation’s service and the service of humanity,” offering more of these kinds of classes will serve to institutionalize and incentivize tangible change, allowing undergraduates to address more easily the constellation of issues plaguing the world.
After Marc Howard and Marty Tankleff paved the way for Georgetown students to upend the American justice system through Making an Exoneree in 2018, seven people have been freed, six have gained significant legal representation, and another seven have had their cases covered extensively in the press.  These numbers might seem quantitatively small but are extremely significant considering how difficult it is for exonerations to happen and the fact that it is mostly pioneered by college students. Last spring, Princeton adapted this class model by creating SPI 499, focusing on 4 cases that have already resulted in an additional exoneration.
Classes that focus on developing technologies and ideas applicable to the real world are not unheard of at Princeton. EGR 380: Creating Value in the Real World expects that “by the end of this class sequence students will have designed and created smooth functioning products, services, systems, or actions that actual groups or communities want and are willing to fund going forward.” TigerJunction — and its fellow TigerApps that we all know and love — is the result of COS 333: Advanced Programming Techniques.
While the existence of these classes is promising, their scope is still very limited, not widespread, and not centered around service and civic engagement.
The University already has the Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship (ProCES) Courses that attempt to do this, stating that “students will engage with community-based knowledge through activities such as in-class discussion, guest speakers, public presentations, site visits, or research.” But in addition to courses with this critical bridge between academic ideas and community perspectives, classes that go further — with a focus on more practical programs seeking to bring about tangible impacts — are necessary.
The University has sufficient organizational unity, resources, and incentives to make more classes like SPI 499 commonplace at Princeton. To further incentivize the creation of and enrollment in these kinds of classes, the University should also welcome the idea of an additional distribution requirement or replace one of the two current Social Analysis requirements with a Social Impact one.
Politics students might gravitate toward a class where they will launch a grassroots campaign in a key area to advocate for a cause, be it climate change or taxation. Students in the natural sciences could research and address air and water pollution testing for neglected communities. Comparative Literature students might find themselves developing a curriculum that increases student exposure to diverse literature. All in all, there would be an emphasis on field-work and real world impact. Even Operations Research and Financial Engineering (ORFE) students could go into a social enterprise and implement their knowledge of financial management and operational efficiency to support it.
Classes that both put students on the vanguard of concrete social issues and ask them to contribute so tangibly to changing the world are revolutionary. This transformative model for education should be a more widespread option for courses across Princeton’s departments. If we in the Orange Bubble are supposed to be taught how to be changemakers, our education should not just stop at learning about change — it must also extend to the tangible application of it.
Contributing columnist Luqmaan Bamba is a freshman from Ghana and New York. He can be contacted at luqmaanbamba[at]princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.It feels like every day we learn about a new way AI could upend our lives. From threats of the technology replacing jobs en masse to invasive new facial recognition systems, AI and computer ethics have become national issues. As a response, some elite universities have implemented programs in ethical computing directly into their computer science pedagogy, such as EthiCS at Harvard and Socially Responsible Computing (SRC) at Brown. Incorporating ethics into the curriculum is an adaptation to the increasing value of computer science skills across job fields and growing concerns about issues like algorithmic bias, data misuse, and the environmental impact of AI.
Princeton has dipped its toe into ethical computing through the Dialogues on AI and Ethics research program and a couple select courses — COS 350: Ethics of Computing, and COS 109: Computers in Our World. However, ethical computing has not been formally incorporated into the main intro COS sequence (COS 126, 217, and 226), which is the foundation of further computer science study and popular with students across disciplines. To address ethical concerns about machine learning and respond to the growing relevance of computer science to a variety of fields, Princeton’s Department of Computer Science (COS) should incorporate lessons, discussions, and readings about ethical computing into its introductory sequence.
A myriad of students across departments partake in the intro COS program. This spring, 263 people are enrolled in COS 126: Computer Science — An Interdisciplinary Approach, and over the past four semesters, the course has consistently enrolled over 250 students. And according to the COS department, over half of Princeton students in previous years — representing all majors — have taken the course.  Since the intro COS sequence is popular, it has a platform. Let’s use it to craft a holistic, ethical education that helps students responsibly use computer science across industries.
In some ways, it seems that Princeton’s COS program has already recognized the importance of catering the intro COS sequence to majors and non-majors alike. After all, the first course most students take, COS 126, is subtitled “An Interdisciplinary Approach.” As someone who took COS 126 last semester, I did enjoy how the course’s assignments utilized concepts from fields like music and linguistics to teach students computer science concepts.
But equally important as applying computing to various disciplines is recognizing the broader ethical impact of these applications in a societal context. In this regard, I found COS 126 missed an opportunity. Two of the course’s assignments directly related to ethical computing issues of today: Students implemented a primitive machine learning algorithm as well as a basic language model built on principles similar to ChatGPT.
As someone already interested in computer ethics, these assignments exemplified how the “learning” and “thinking” we ascribe to machine learning differs greatly from that of humans. But I had to connect those dots on my own. By discussing these concepts in lecture or precept, the COS program could involve all students in an interactive examination of how deeply ethics is enmeshed in computer science, contextualizing class concepts within the various fields students may pursue in the future.
The perils of COS without ethics have become even clearer recently. Let’s face it: The presidential administration currently attempting to curb civil rights and liberties in favor of investing in AI and other technology is heavily influenced by Mark Zuckerberg, Elon Musk, and Sam Altman, three men from elite universities who either pursued computer science in their studies or outside of school.
Altman has even been on the record saying that the advent of artificial intelligence could “require changes to the social contract,” implying that humans should adjust to AI, rather than the other way around. Princeton has a responsibility to avoid producing students with a similarly monomaniacal view of technology’s importance — and enhancing the intro COS sequence is a good first step.
Some would argue that, with an already large COS curriculum and the department’s reputation for difficult courses, implementing ethics-centered coursework would only overwhelm students and hinder their learning. But the successful efforts of other universities demonstrate that inclusion of computer science ethics enriches and balances the curriculum.
At Brown, the SRC program has a list of courses — including introductory ones — that have incorporated ethical content, such as mini-lectures, class discussions, and extra credit assignments. At Harvard, the Embedded EthiCS program offers a variety of weekly teaching labs for lower- and upper-level courses alike, with relevant content tailored for each. Both of these programs engage with AI ethics in a way that naturally follows from course content, rather than tacking on extra coursework.
Princeton’s COS department can and should follow the lead of its counterparts at other universities. Just like a special lecture was dedicated in COS 126 to Machine Learning, someone versed in computer science ethics should visit intro courses once or twice to explore the ethics related to each class’s topics. A few precepts per semester could also be designated to ethical discussions, given that they already serve the purpose of expanding upon course content. And in the case of COS majors, perhaps Princeton should implement an ethical computing class requirement to receive a degree. Ultimately, this should be an easy choice for a university like Princeton which prioritizes the liberal arts and, especially, the service of humanity.
No practice or discipline exists in a vacuum, and that’s important to recognize now more than ever. To meet the moment and its own principles, Princeton must expand the content of introductory COS programs to address the ethics of computing. Ethics doesn’t have to be an afterthought or tangent of our computer science education; we have the tools we need to apply advanced computer science concepts to a variety of disciplines while remaining explicitly and boldly humanistic in the face of the evolving technological horizons of today.
Shane McCauley is an assistant Opinion editor from Boston intending to major in Anthropology (and minor in Computer Science). He can be reached at sm8000[at]princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.After attending Princeton as a graduate student in the Department of Electrical Engineering in 1969, Brian Kernighan returned to the University in 2000 as a professor in the computer science department after spending time at Bell Labs, a renowned computer science research center. He has reached students across disciplines and rethought teaching methods of introductory computer science in the age of AI.
The Daily Princetonian spoke with Professor Kernighan to learn more about his journey to Princeton, his approach to computer science education, and his perspective on how AI might shape the future of student learning.
This interview has been edited lightly for clarity and concision.
Daily Princetonian (DP): What initially drew you to the field of computer science?
Brian Kernighan (BK): That was a long time ago. I was in college when I saw a computer for the first time, but I found it kind of interesting, not knowing much about it. It was a device that seemed to flash lights, but people thought it was interesting, and somehow or other I blundered into learning a bit of programming.
DP: What led you to start teaching at Princeton, and why did you decide to stay?
BK: I came here as a graduate student and spent four and a half years basically across the road in [the] E-Quad. When I graduated, I went to Bell Labs, which is up in North Jersey. I spent 30 years there, and then I came back to Princeton [for] computer science. So, it’s not a typical path.
I had a great time at Bell Labs. For probably 25 to 30 years, it was really interesting, and I had a lot of fun. But then it was starting to get a bit tiring. The company changed. The world changed around it, and I had a chance to do some teaching. I taught CS 50 at Harvard, which is an enormous class. I had also taught at Princeton as an adjunct professor — coming in and doing one course per semester — and I spent a year as a visitor, and that was a lot of fun. So, when [Princeton] made me an offer, I took it. [Returning to Princeton] was like a second childhood, or something like that.
It’s a lot of fun. You get to meet a lot of interesting students, you get to hang out with really interesting colleagues in computer science and people in other parts of the University. Continuously learning new things helps keep you, well, maybe not young, but maybe not aging as fast.
It’s partially the teaching part I enjoy, but I also do a lot of independent work. Advising, in general, is fun. I just had a meeting at Forbes, because I’ve been doing academic advising at Forbes for a long time, gearing up for yet another group of freshmen who show up in the fall.
DP: Why did you decide to leave Bell Labs?
BK: When I first went there, the world was very young. These were very early days of computing, so that meant there were all kinds of interesting things to work on. As the field matured, to some extent, that became less true. The other thing is that when I went there originally, Bell Labs was really pure research. You could pick something that was interesting, you could work on it, and nobody said, “Well, what have you done for us this quarter?” or that kind of very short-term thing. That was changing, and I started to get a little restless.
The company itself also had major changes in the way that it did business. It split itself into multiple pieces, and the financial mechanisms started to change. You had to find your own research money. These things didn’t affect me directly, but they were in the air, and I thought maybe it was time to think about something different.
Additionally, I enjoyed the teaching that I did, in particular in the big class at Harvard. I also learned that I could handle the mechanics of a big class, which is something I didn’t know until I tried, so I didn’t have to worry about that. This was my “baptism of fire,” is the cliché saying.
DP: How have your experiences here influenced your own work and/or approach to computer science education?
BK: One course which I’ve taught a few times is COS 109: Computers in Our World. And the people in that are definitely not technical. They’re people, let’s be honest; they’re taking it to check off the QCR requirement. But trying to explain what computing and communication technology is, how they work, how they change the world around us, and how you should react to them, to people whose interests and expertise are just somewhere else, is interesting and fun. It’s fairly rare that somebody takes this course and goes on in computer science, but, boy, they’re good at stuff. So it’s fun to try and explain [computer science] to them, and then to learn what they like to do in their field and watch them do that well.
DP: Throughout your career, you’ve emphasized the importance of interdisciplinary studies and making computer science accessible to those from non-technical backgrounds. What inspired this approach, and how have you seen it impact students from diverse fields?
BK: COS 109 introduced me to lots of people — not just students, but also to faculty members who are in other fields as well. Over the last 10 or 20 years, computing has become an important part of [other] academic discipline[s]. I have gravitated toward people who are doing that sort of thing. I taught a course with Effie Rentzou in the French and Italian Department, and one with Meredith Martin in the English Department on data in the humanities. And I’ve been involved with the Center for Digital Humanities basically since it began. That’s a way of looking at information that comes from other fields.
I also teach independent work seminars here. The students in them are almost entirely JP juniors in computer science, and the topic is digital humanities, and that’s their independent work. They’re looking at all kinds of weird and interesting data that comes mostly from the humanities. In other words, it’s not financial data. It’s not Wall Street, ORFE kind of data, nor is it the kind of data that you would get from physics experiments. It’s more weird things about what people do, properties of books, history, people’s social interactions, and more. The students in those classes do data analysis. They explore the data, they look for patterns, and they try to learn something interesting. They are technical, but they have interests in other things as well.
DP: With AI and machine learning playing an increasingly prominent role in the modern day, what do you see as the biggest challenges and opportunities for the next generation of programmers?
BK: I wish I knew what was going to happen there. If you think about it, the large language models like ChatGPT have been around for less than two and a half years. They have changed the world — particularly the academic world. They’re a lot more sophisticated today than they were when they first came out, and they already were pretty remarkable then. I think it’s one of those questions nobody has a good answer to. We discussed it when I was over at Forbes today. How should classes deal with the use of large language models? Should you be allowed to use it to write a paper? And [when you] take that sort of question and apply it to all the different courses that you might take, the answers, I think, are not the same.
In COS 126, for example, you’re not supposed to use any of these kinds of things to solve the programming assignments. I think that’s fair. But if you get out in the real world, people use those things routinely because they give you some advantage, a lever that lets you deal with bigger problems. How do you balance that? The short answer is, I don’t know.
In my class last fall, I told students that they could use generative AI to get a better understanding of what was going on. They could not use it on problem sets. It was crystal clear that people used it on problem sets anyway because they would turn in assignments that would have been too sophisticated for a 126 student. We then had a discussion in class about the trade offs — you got the right answer to the problem, but you didn’t understand what you were doing.
But that’s one answer for one part of one class. There are just so many variations. The guidance that comes down from on high is basically, every instructor has to figure it out for himself or herself. The other piece of guidance is to make it crystal clear to the students what the rules are. But the rules are different in every single class, and that’s hard.
DP: If you could give one piece of advice to students and aspiring programmers today, what would it be?
BK: Learn how to do it yourself. Use the mechanical aids, but learn what you’re doing. A general problem with these large language models is that they will give you confident answers that are total nonsense, and if you don’t understand what you’re doing well enough, you will not recognize what the nonsense is.
The best that I could probably do is to make students aware of AI so that they can use it effectively when it makes sense and be wary when it doesn’t. In COS 109, I used to have programming assignments. You can’t do that anymore because students can just look them up. I changed some of the lab assignments to a form that can be done by hand. For lab two, I told students to get an AI model of some sort to do it for you. Then, I asked them to look and see what happened, what worked, what didn’t work, and what they learned from that experience. Somebody who pays attention to the assignment, as opposed to just checking the work off, might learn something from that experience. But I think this is going to be a moving target, so I try to keep ahead so that people are encouraged or forced to learn as well.
Learn where AI is useful and when you shouldn’t be using it, and learn enough so that you can detect when it’s given the wrong answers, when it’s hallucinating or lying.
Angela Li is an assistant Features editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On Monday, April 3, students enrolled in COS 126 (Computer Science: An Interdisciplinary Approach), got a Canvas announcement from Professor David August entitled “Important Collaboration Policy Information.”
In it, he requested that everyone review the COS 126 Collaboration Policy. “After reviewing the policy, if you feel you have accidentally, or even intentionally, not followed our policy, committed plagiarism, attempted to gain an unfair advantage, or committed another violation of course policy, you may bring this to the attention of David August or Alan Kaplan,” August wrote in the announcement.
“In general, if such an admission occurs before a disciplinary case has been submitted and found to be complete and truthful, such cases will not be submitted to the Committee on Discipline/Honor Committee,“ he wrote.
Students have not had updates since the email was sent and a variety of rumors have swirled in the absence of firm information. The instructors and preceptors of the introductory computer science course did not respond to requests for comment from the ‘Prince.’ The ‘Prince’ granted anonymity to multiple students to discuss disciplinary matter.
Suspected violations of the honor system result in a hearing before the Honor Committee, while violations related to problem sets, essays, or laboratory reports will be dealt by the Committee on Discipline. Accused students first meet with a University investigator and their director of student life and then undergo a hearing, where they can present their case and must respond to questions from Committee members and other relevant parties, including professors. Committee on Discipline punishments can be stiff, including year-long suspension.
Computer science classes have historically formed a large fraction of the cases involving honor code violations. Notably, during the pandemic, the ‘Prince’ reported that “almost all the cases came from economics, mathematics, or computer science.”
“I would assume that some students plagiarized work from other students or online and were caught by the COS 126 staff,” Sabreen Alam ’26, who is in the COS 126, speculated.
Other students in the class doubted that there was anything happening: “It just seems like scare tactics they’re using as the assignments get harder and people want to cheat on them more,” one said.
Another anonymous student said that his preceptor “told [us that] they had a whole stack of reports ready to be sent to the Committee on Discipline [because] they’d found a bunch of cheating in the previous few assignments and so they were like ‘turn yourself in and get a lighter punishment or don’t and get the full punishment.’”
A different anonymous student said that their preceptor announced that private investigators found evidence that “corroborated” the existing charges. The University’s use of private investigators in disciplinary has garnered mixed reactions in the past.
Yet without firm information, a more outrageous array of hearsay is spreading. According to one circulating rumor, a group chat used to share code was infiltrated by Teacher’s Assistants. Another rumor alleged that instructors detected students using ChatGPT on assignments. The ‘Prince’ has not been able to independently confirm any of these rumors.
In the Canvas announcement, August wrote, “A penalty consistent with the course policy violation may be assessed (e.g., an impact on your grade), which is much less severe than the typical University-level penalty (e.g., mark on permanent record and suspension). Admissions will not be shared with other COS 126 staff beyond the senior staff. A student taking this option will not be treated differently going forward.”
August’s message included a Q&A section in which he answered questions that he anticipated the message would raise.
Additionally, he explained the process used to detect plagiarism, which he said he did in order to put students’ minds “at ease.” According to August, there are thousands of ways to do every COS 126 assignment, but “for some parts of the code there are only a few correct ways to do it.” He wrote, “There exists an entire science to finding the ‘fingerprint’ in the code. Similarity may or not indicate a problem … parts of the code [for which there are not many ways to do it] are not a meaningful part of the fingerprint.”
He elaborated on their plagiarism detection process: “We don’t pursue a case unless the analysis reveals a vanishingly small probability of similarity by independent development. In all cases in which I have been involved, we provided [evidence to the investigators] or investigators uncovered corroborating evidence outside of the code itself.”
Julian Hartman-Sigall is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Zach Lee is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Many students hoping to get into SML 201: Introduction to Data Science this semester were left disappointed. By the middle of the last week of the add/drop period, 244 people were waiting to grab a spot on TigerSnatch for a class with fewer than 160 enrollees.
The Daily Princetonian analyzed the 15 most-requested courses of the semester as reported by TigerSnatch subscription analytics.
The most ‘snatched’ courses are fairly evenly spread across distributional requirements. Literature and the Arts (LA) stands out, with the Creative Writing courses dominating. CWR 204: Creative Writing (Fiction) had 219 snatches, and CWR 202: Creating Writing (Poetry) had 172 snatches. Historical Analysis (HA) is the only distribution requirement without representation in the top 15.
Lecturer Day Yi, who teaches SML 201, attributes the course’s high demand to growing industry interest in AI.
“The demand might indicate students are favorably adopting the course content, the industry trends especially in the AI space, and the teaching efforts of our instructors,” Yi wrote. “We have a great group of core faculty at CSML who have laid the foundation for this demand long before I arrived here.”
The demand for these courses, however, has spelled difficulty for both professors and students, often exceeding the maximum roster size of the class.
Physics professor Jason Puchalla, who teaches PHY 108: Physics for the Life Sciences, wrote in an email to the ‘Prince’ that there are two sides to teaching a course with more interest than can be satisfied. PHY 108 had 177 people awaiting openings on TigerSnatch.
“I’m delighted the class has been well received by students, but the enrollment stress means I have mixed feelings,” Puchalla wrote. “I’m thankful I’ve been able to have a positive impact on so many exceptional students since our department first offered the class. That said, PHY 108 has grown into a complicated element of the curriculum.”
As such, one of the most challenging aspects of teaching these courses is choosing which students to accept from their extensive waitlists. Professors must carefully balance class function with satisfaction, and, in certain cases, consider students who need the courses to graduate.
Puchalla spoke about the complex and difficult process involved in selecting students off of the waitlist.
“Many students hope to use the class to help prepare for the MCAT, others are potentially away the following year, and some reveal last minute that they are seniors who won’t graduate unless they get in,” Puchalla said. “Seniors who need the class to graduate are considered first. Then come students who have been locked out several times (I keep a lot of emails) and complicated cases I’m informed of by deans and departments.”
Puchalla claimed that, after that, he used a lottery to fill remaining spots.
“Telling so many students this year that there are no more seats in the class was disheartening and incredibly frustrating,” he added.
Professor and Director of Graduate Studies in Musicology Elizabeth Margulis teaches MUS 248: Music Cognition, which had 136 TigerSnatch subscriptions. Speaking about the student selection process, Margulis wrote, “We try to add people as fairly as we’re able, based on how the class fits into their goals and plans and how long they’ve been on the list.”
While seniority is generally the primary factor considered when selecting students off of the waitlist, there are exceptions.
With 111 students on the waitlist and only 15 spots available, ANT 232: Love — Anthropological Explorations has the highest waitlist-to-class-size. Aina Marzia ’28 was accepted into the class after contacting the course instructor, Professor Thalia Gigerenzer.
“I didn’t initially get the class because it was taken by seniors, but I emailed the professor as a freshman about my earnest interest for the class’s content and she gave me permission to enroll,” Marzia said. “The ethnographic aspect of the class really interested me. I knew I wanted to take it as someone who wants to major in Anthropology; plus who doesn’t want talk about love, even if it’s academically. It teaches you a lot.”
Yi acknowledged the challenges the relatively young Center for Statistics and Machine Learning faces in managing the unprecedented demand, often requiring faculty members to juggle multiple responsibilities.
“We are not a large department — in fact, we aren’t even a department — and so our thin resources create challenges in managing the enrollment at the start of the semester. Many of us wear several hats in keeping this course from falling apart,” Yi wrote. “This creates much extra work for us — the instructors and administrators. The quality to quantity ratio can suffer as a result. I’m a movie buff, so I refer to a quote from Hyman Roth (The Godfather, Part II) — ‘this is the business we’ve chosen.’”
These challenges come despite general increases in maximum enrollment sizes for these courses since the Spring 2022 semester.
The highest percent maximum enrollment size increase occurred in POL 396: International Organizations, in which enrollment increased by 230 students: a 135 percent jump. The course had 127 students subscribed on TigerSnatch, waiting for a course opening.
The add/drop period officially ended on Friday, Feb. 7 at 11:59 p.m. Many courses on the top 15 list in Tiger Snatch are still overenrolled.
Griffin Hon is a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Above all else, Princeton prides itself on the academic rigor of its curriculum. However, while the University’s high standards of excellence and fast-paced environment may be valid goals to strive for, not all students are able to keep up with the pace.
After all, Princeton admits applicants from all over the world. Consequently, incoming students come from several different types of academic backgrounds, including private schools, charter schools, public schools both resource wealthy and resource lacking, vocational academies, and community colleges. Because of this wide variety of academic backgrounds, there is naturally a disparity between the collegiate preparation and academic training of the incoming students. This disparity is especially apparent for first-generation-low income (FGLI) students who often disproportionately experience greater difficulty in keeping up with Princeton’s high standards of academic rigor.
In order to effectively address this disparity, Princeton needs to re-evaluate the difficulty of the STEM introductory courses and implement equity-oriented solutions that directly address the different levels of student preparation. After all, the level of academic rigor at Princeton can only be truly effective if all students are first able to work on a level playing field.
Even as a first-year at Princeton, I quickly became acutely aware of the range of academic backgrounds among my peers. I felt as though this disparity was especially evident in introductory courses. Throughout high school, I was a student who enjoyed and performed well in math, and I would definitely say that my two AP Calculus courses were my favorite classes. Once I entered Princeton, I enrolled in a required BSE math course MAT 201: Multivariable Calculus, following Princeton’s AP and SAT guidelines for placement. However, I quickly grew to dread math class.
It was not long before I was struggling beyond belief in the course. I was attending both weekly tutoring sessions and office hours just to complete the homework. My usual study habits no longer worked, and the curve did little to help my grade. Increasingly, I noticed that when exams came around, students with prior experience in multivariable calculus or with stronger academic backgrounds tended to perform better and affect the curve. After all, these are students who are essentially forced to retake a course similar to one they have already taken.
MAT 201 is just one example of Princeton’s many difficult introductory STEM courses. For instance, COS 126: Computer Science — An Interdisciplinary Approach is presented as a rudimentary course geared towards students of all levels. However, it is infamously difficult for students who have no background in coding, due to its fast pace and time-consuming weekly programming assignments. As one student review indicated: “This course is [not] a beginner friendly environment.” Another example is MOL 214: Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology. I struggled in MOL 214 due to my high school’s lackluster science program. Although there are more accessible biology courses than MOL 214 offered at Princeton, those courses don’t satisfy degree requirements for STEM majors. Introductory physics courses also similarly trap students with expectations of background knowledge and prior experience in the subject. Since you can only place out of physics by taking an exam that tests both mechanics as well as electricity and magnetism, students who have taken either course in a prior year are stuck re-taking the subject.
Princeton should implement specific solutions in introductory STEM courses to address the inequity of educational backgrounds. Currently, Princeton does provide a variety of different resources for students who may feel out of their depth in these introductory STEM courses. For instance, the McGraw Center provides both individual tutoring as well as group study halls for many of these courses. However, for popular courses, these programs tend to fill up quickly. Office hours with professors and TAs are also offered, but these resources also tend to become crowded as the course’s workload intensifies. Another potential resource is the Scholars Institute Fellows Program (SIFP) through the Emma Bloomberg Center for Access & Opportunity. They offer precepts and weekly math tables where students can get help from the other students and faculty in a more relaxed environment. In the SIFP precepts, instructors discuss problem-solving strategies, work on tailored problem sets, and provide individualized support. Although I believe that SIFP precepts are especially helpful for intro classes, SIFP primarily benefits students who are FGLI. Consequently, students who came from disadvantaged high schools, but are not under the FGLI umbrella, are unable to access SIFP’s resources and support. Therefore, I believe the University can still take additional measures to specifically address the present inequity.
It is vital that the University explore equity-driven solutions to help alleviate stress surrounding these introductory STEM courses. A potential solution may include allowing or even encouraging students who have previously taken an equivalent course to test out. As a result, students who have previously taken a similar or equivalent course will not be forced to retake it, and can instead be placed at an education level that more accurately matches their academic background. Though some students may still elect to enroll in the course regardless, by providing this option, this will help to filter out students who are already familiar with the content. Additionally, it can help prevent a negative curve by leaving these introductory courses for students who are not familiar with the material.
Another possible solution may be to implement a predetermined curve that is not dependent on how well students are currently performing in the course. In certain courses, curves can easily change from semester to semester and may often depend heavily on the performance of certain well-performing students — making it unfair for others. Ideally, a curve should be beneficial to students regardless of the performance of other students in the course. Furthermore, it might also be helpful to allow introductory courses or prerequisites to be taken on a Pass/D/Fail (PDF) basis, so that students don’t have to worry about their GPA so early in their academic career.
In order to address the disparity in students’ academic background, it is essential that Princeton identify and implement solutions in introductory courses, where the equity “gap” tends to be most apparent.
Yushra Guffer is a sophomore contributing columnist majoring in Electrical and Computer Engineering.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.Across my time as a Princeton undergraduate, I’ve sung along to “Old Nassau” more times than I care to count. By now, I’ve learned to drop an octave for the song’s latter half lest I run out of room at the top of my vocal range for the final notes. But there’s another life in which I and so many other Princetonians before me would’ve learned to sing the same words of our alma mater to another tune: Before the music was written, there was first an attempt to simply use the tune of “Auld Lang Syne” — that New Year’s classic which so beautifully yet hauntingly bids farewell to the old with some hope for the new. And while Commencement may be a celebratory occasion to mark the turning of a new chapter, these final moments before it, I’ve found them to be so weighed down by the haunts of farewells.
I first learned of this alternate possibility for our school’s song in January. Right after Christmas, it’s of little surprise that my immediate reaction was to think of the ending to “It’s a Wonderful Life,” starring alumnus Jimmy Stewart ’32. I focused on the film’s end when Stewart’s character, George Bailey, basks in the generous love of all those around him, those who sing “Auld Lang Syne” to him as the camera closes in on a note left written by the angel Clarence: “Remember no man is a failure who has friends.”
To close out a film, to close out a year with such a message of friendship, of camaraderie and love, can be of no coincidence. These friendships are what tie us so profoundly to auld lang syne — to time gone by. This message lies at the heart of the song, one rarely, if ever, sung without company, one reminiscing on old friendship with a feeble hope for its endurance against the seas of passing time that have roared between.
It’s this idea, I believe, that has kept generations of Princetonians going back, returning to this patch of central New Jersey year after year to fill their hearts with the sounds of locomotives and tiger roars, without a steam train or wild tiger in sight, surrounded only by classmates and their families. Every trip back through FitzRandolph Gate is buoyed by the dogged hope that the love and camaraderie one can feel every day here will remain alive five, twenty-five, fifty years later — until finally we sit among the Old Guard, dwindling in numbers but leading the way for those classes following with booming cheers and song.
All this leaves me feeling like the tune of “Auld Lang Syne” would have been most fitting for the words of “Old Nassau” if only those students over a century ago could have made them work together. After all, despite their unachieved harmony, they carry much the same message. This might not be so evident with the singular verse and chorus sung most days now, but ensuing verses largely forgotten in all but written records echo their abandoned melody.
“And when these walls in dust are laid, / With reverence and awe, / Another throng shall breathe our song, / In praise of Old Nassau.”
In all the admissions marketing and all the alumni commotion, Princeton’s long tradition — not its status quo but its ritual — can often be lost to the jargon of “a strong alumni network” or to the great pride in one’s individual class. However, this verse sings to something deeper, something long buried at the heart of this school, way deeper than any cannon on the green. It sings of that ritual I’ve slowly learned to recognize in my own Princeton life. It is that ritual of adopting this place as one’s own, tending to its people and its project, and then teaching the next students to do the same. As a freshman I could not easily recognize this, but years later, I can now look back on all those moments of tender teaching — of learning and teaching to love all that one stumbles by on this campus’s many paths. Turning, over and over this cycle continues, with as much eventuality as the dust building up upon the old stones of Nassau Hall.
“Till then with joy our songs we’ll bring, / And while a breath we draw, / We’ll all unite to shout and sing: / Long life to Old Nassau.”
I can’t help but wonder why it is that we are so quick to mark the momentous occasions of our lives with chant and song. I can think back, at least, to all those previous times I’ve joined in singing our cheers and praise for Old Nassau: at step sings, at the end of Triangle shows, at my regional alumni association’s various parties. I can think of the crowds gathered around the world, waiting for the clock to strike twelve, for the fireworks to shimmer against the dark sky, for the ball to drop. On each of these occasions, regardless of which song it beckons, I tend to almost always reach a point in the chorus when my throat will feel a lump form, my stomach a knot tighten. It is purely instinctual. There seems to be something so essential about these odes to passing time and enduring friendship. It seems to reach at our most basic desire, perhaps even need, for such soothing reminders of the warmth of our community all around us and of its continuity.
Perhaps, however, the words of one song could never really fit the other’s melody. Viewed from another angle, our alma mater posits a response to the other song’s opening question of whether old friends and old times should come to be forgotten. Our old Nassau for which we gather year after year demands that neither time nor friends be let to pass simply into the dark vaults of our memory.
And so, the farewell to these undergraduate years becomes a little less haunting. Come Commencement and every time after when we gather as Princetonians, as tigers with our orange and black, we may find ourselves beating our hearts as our right fists fly into the air and our voices equally soar to the tune, to the praise of old Nassau. We may find ourselves singing together again, thinking of all the times gone by, and we can rest assured in this promise elicited from “Old Nassau.” It is a promise of neither friend nor time forgotten. However much it may feel like so, for all us tigers, we can rejoice with one accord in the promise of there never really being one last time, only a long life at old Nassau.
​​José Pablo Fernández García is a Princetonian from Ohio and Head Editor Emeritus for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ As of May 30, 2023, he is no longer a senior but now an alumnus, making this essay his final entry as an undergraduate staffer or editor for the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached at jpgarcia@princeton.edu until this account is shut off and on Twitter and Instagram @josepablo_fg for the foreseeable future.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Higher education is in trouble. Princeton is in trouble. After Tuesday’s announcement that the federal government suspended some of Princeton’s research grants, it’s clear that we’re already in the crosshairs. At Columbia, after the university appointed an administrative official to oversee an academic department in acquiescence to Trump administration demands, it appears that the integrity of academic freedom is also under attack.
Many university presidents have chosen to remain silent in the face of this attack on academia. Others, such as Michael Roth ’84 GS of Wesleyan University, have explicitly vilified the Trump administration. Rather than taking an overtly political stance against the administration, University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 has chosen to take a principled stand against the most troubling facet of the recent grant suspensions: their impact on academic freedom.
While support for one’s university president may not be common in the pages of a student newspaper, it’s time for Princetonians to realize that for years, Eisgruber has kept the University on the right course of free expression and academic freedom. He has arguably handled the issues of the past two years the best out of any of our peer institutions, and it’s important in this moment to stay his course.
Princeton has been a model of discourse in the Ivy League in major part because of Eisgruber’s leadership. Eisgruber, who is also the Laurance S. Rockefeller Professor of the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs and the University Center for Human Values, is one of our nation’s most esteemed constitutional scholars, with an immense repertoire of First Amendment scholarship, which has informed his leadership of Princeton.
Under his tenure, barring a few notable critiques, Old Nassau has routinely ranked as one of the schools with the most robust protections for free speech, and overall has developed a culture of discourse respected by students and faculty alike. “Shouting down” speakers, routine at our peer institutions, is relatively rare at Princeton.
Even before the Trump administration’s recent attacks on academic freedom, there has been a crisis of discourse at America’s universities. The Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression (FIRE) which defends free speech on college campuses found that 63 percent of students are “frequently” or “sometimes” intimidated to share ideas that differ from their peers. Nowhere is this experience more pressing than our nation’s elite universities, such as at Harvard, where just this semester, a survey indicated that most students are uncomfortable sharing controversial opinions in class.
This phenomenon, however, has mostly escaped Princeton. The Daily Princetonian’s 2024 Senior Survey found that just 18 percent of graduating seniors felt very or somewhat uncomfortable sharing their political views on campus.
Eisgruber has prioritized fostering discussions on free speech, including adding programming to freshman orientation, exposing students to the importance of free expression during their very first days on campus. He has also notably championed Princeton’s policy of “institutional restraint.”
Eisgruber is one of the most senior elite university presidents, managing to retain his position while many peers have been forced out of their offices. To top it all off, he’s writing a book sharing his story of success: “Terms of Respect: How Colleges Get Free Speech Right,” to be published in September.
And now, at the exact right moment, Eisgruber is speaking out in defense of universities, and doing it in such a way that highlights the value of academic freedom. Last week, Eisgruber published an article in The Atlantic pushing back against the government’s attempt to chip away at academic freedom, and reaffirmed his views a few days later in a PBS interview. After Tuesday’s funding freeze announcement, he also appeared on Bloomberg Business’s “Big Take” podcast to maintain his defense of academic freedom.
But some of our fellow students have expressed their discontent with Eisgruber’s approach. During a Council of the Princeton University Community meeting last week, a student demanded that Eisgruber commit to using his position as chair of the Association of American Universities to “defend all members of the University community from the recent Trump administration attacks on free speech, funding cuts and threats for deportations.”
Eisgruber deflected in response, affirming the importance of speaking about the good of universities but rejecting the idea of directly opposing administration officials. This is, again, a prudent strategy: the administration’s response would trounce the University. If Princeton were to do what the activists ask and look for a fight with the executive branch, Princeton would lose. A single university is certainly no match for the awesome power of the federal government.
In this critical moment for higher education, we implore our fellow students to unite behind President Eisgruber, instead of undermining his efforts to keep us on the right course. Eisgruber is right in saying that we must follow the law while also defending our academic freedom and due process. When Columbia faced funding freezes, little was said by their president before they announced measures implementing all of the Trump administration’s demands. Conversely, on Tuesday, Eisgruber declared that “we have to be willing to say no to funding if it’s going to constrain our ability to pursue the truth.”
We do not envy Eisgruber’s job. But the fact that he has continued to voice his commitment to academic freedom and the strength of the American university is commendable. In a time when Princeton and higher education are under fire, we ought to be uniting against the threats and supporting the academic freedom principles that Eisgruber has championed.
Princeton’s commitment to truth requires discourse. Protection of these sacrosanct values have been fundamental to Eisgruber’s philosophy of the presidency. We should be supportive.
Jerry Zhu is a sophomore majoring in Economics. He serves as the community Opinion editor of The Daily Princetonian, and encourages you to submit a response to this piece or write an op-ed for the ‘Prince.’ You can reach him at jfz[at]princeton.edu.
Preston Ferraiuolo is a junior from Brooklyn, New York. He is an associate Opinion editor majoring in the School of Public and International Affairs and can be reached at prestonf[at]princeton.edu or online @NYCPreston.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.We are tired.
Over the 277 years of the university’s history, students have perpetuated a culture of inaction, nay, laziness. As one of the world’s leading institutions of higher education and research, it appalls us to bear witness to students who get accepted, enroll, and graduate, with little substance or depth in between.
We as the Daily PrintsAnything staffers cannot sit idly by any longer. We are imploring you, begging you, beseeching you.
John Smith ’26, president and founder of Princeton Students with Conviction, stated, “Students are refusing to engage or even recognize this problem. We are giving name to this issue, and that name isn’t ever going away.”
We hear you, John Smith. The University has silenced you for too long. The time has come for us to rise up, speak out, and take a stance. A specific stance.
We encourage you to tune out the world, especially those who disagree with and try to keep you down. Keep your eyes and ears open, engage with those who disagree with and try to keep you down. Only then can change be made.
Empty promises. Hollow statements. We support you and your clearly defined viewpoints. We will stand behind you shouting those words with you. We will stand in front of you and lead all of us to a future that is more.
Jane Doe ’26, a speaking major with minors in Having Her Voice Heard and Applied Vocal Projection, echoed these sentiments.
“Stand up,” she began. “Sit down. Take up space. Go to work. One hop this time. Two hops this time. Criss. Cross. Everybody, clap your hands.”
So please, we are on our knees begging you, come audition to act for Theater Intime’s spring production of Mean Girls.
The Daily Princetonian Humor Section strongly endorses this message. They cannot be reached.
A collaboration by Head Humor Editors Spencer Bauman and Sophia Varughese, and Humor contributors Eric Mohorea, Tarun Iyengar, Vivian Huang, Francesca Volkema, Roberto Sampaio.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.The following content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
Given the tumultuous campus climate this past spring and the back-and-forth about the true meaning of “free speech,” it is clear that some change needs to come to Princeton.
For far too long, we have taken a woke, beta-male, socialist approach to the First Amendment. In other words, students have not needed to pay for their words and actions. The University serves up student rights on a fine silver platter just like their mommies and daddies did.
Wake up, liberals. This tradition runs counter to our principles as proud American free-market capitalists. Our troops paid the ultimate price for your rights, and you take that for granted when you march around in your furry costumes and wave your protest signs.
We need to start charging students for speech in order to correct this. To paraphrase so the uneducated, virtue-signaling, dyed-hair youths of the woke mob can understand, we need fee speech.
While this sentiment may trigger snowflakes who think free speech is a universal right, they should remember that this very institution charges students to eat food, a human right according to the deep state puppeteered United Nations.
If the University treats speech like meal swipes, they can make students truly feel the costs of their words and actions. For example, those brave students who claim they would gladly pitch their tent on Cannon Green again can see if it’s really worth it when they have to opt-in for an Unlimited Speech plan.
Coming in at an estimated grand total of $68,296 per academic year, you may soon have to trade in your pronouns for a part-time job to cover the cost of spreading their message. The sense of entitlement that comes with “free” speech will be hereafter wiped out on this campus when reality sets in.
Alternatively, fiscally conscious students who aren’t mooching off George Soros’ estate can opt for the Speech-Plus plan. Since these students know when to hold their tongue, they will only have to pay $1,776 per academic year to get their reasonable viewpoints across.
Additionally, the University can give juniors, seniors, and graduate students a chance to move off the typical speech plans and enter into Speaking Clubs to espouse their speech in an incomprehensibly more elitist way.
Liberal Arts-obsessed students — still whining over the results of the election — could form a club to house their elitist and terroristic views. On the other hand, more informed conservative students could join an association to discuss the benefits of the Heritage Foundation and the second coming of our lord and savior Donald J[esus] Trump. Their membership fee would be incredibly low because spreading Judeo-Christian values does not come at a high cost.
The incessant back and forth over “free speech” at college campuses and in the media could easily be avoided if we break free from the DEI liberal coastal elite of academia and return to our bloodthirsty capitalist roots. Princeton, it’s time to put our money where our mouth is.
Tarun Iyengar is a contributing Humor writer. He is a woke moralist and conservative stalwart. He can be reached at ti7371[at]princeton.edu.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.After the buzz of Dean’s Date and exams pass, Princeton’s campus sits in silence for about a week as seniors either go on Dead Week trips or relax on campus. That silence quickly ends with the coming of Reunions and Commencement where thousands of people come back to celebrate. This photo essay gives a glimpse into the hectic week where the two events take place.

The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Each week, Sports and Data writers analyze recent athletic competitions to provide analysis and insight on the happenings of Princeton athletics and individual players across the 38 intercollegiate teams at Princeton. Whether they are record-breaking or day-to-day, statistics deliver information in concise ways and help inform fans who might have missed the action. Read past By the Numbers coverage here.
Over the past week, Princeton teams played 33 games and matches across 14 sports and seven U.S. states. Of the 23 games where only one team came out on top, the Tigers won 78.3 percent of matches, smashing the 63.6 percent in last week’s games. Multiple-day meets and tournaments are counted individually for each day of the competition. Competitions with more than one event or individual results such as golf and cross country are not included in our win percentage analysis.
This week, the Tigers won nearly four-fifths of their games. Home field advantage pulled through this past week, winning ten of fifteen, but Tigers were perfect on the road, winning all eight away from Old Nassau including men’s basketball’s come-from-behind win over Duquesne at a neutral site in Trenton.
Sophomore guard Ashley Chea set a new career points high, scoring 17 in a women’s basketball win over Villanova last night. After averaging six points as a first-year behind then-senior stars Kaitlyn Chen ’25 and Ellie Mitchell ’25 last year, Chea has risen to be the Tigers second-leading scorer three games into the season — posting just over ten a game.
For the first time in five years, the Ivy League has two field hockey teams in the NCAA tournament: Princeton and Harvard. After finishing the Ivy season undefeated and securing critical non-conference wins, the Tigers locked in an at-large spot in the tournament to join the Ivy League tournament champion Crimson.
In the first meet of the season, first-year Patrick Dinu broke the 100-meter freestyle school record by almost four-tenths of a second with a time of 42.51. He and his teammate junior Mitchell Schott, who now has the third-best 100-free time in school history, are sure to go back and forth this year in one of the fastest races in the pool.
The aforementioned Schott posted a blazing fast 1:32.78 200-meter freestyle for the Tigers this Saturday, breaking his own record by .59 seconds. Schott, who hails from Newport Beach, California, holds top-four times in Tiger history for the 100-meter, 200-meter, and 500-meter freestyles.
As women’s volleyball heads into their final weekend of the regular season, junior outside hitter Kamryn Chaney currently is averaging more kills per set, 4.35, than any Tiger in the past eight seasons for which there are records. In fact, no Tiger has put up more than 4 per set in that same time.
Field hockey’s senior goalie Robyn Thompson moved into the top-five on the Princeton career shutout list with a 4–0 win in the Ivy League tournament semifinals over Columbia. Thompson, who will face off against Boston College in the NCAA tournament Nov. 15, has the second most shutouts in the last 22 years, with 13 trailing only the 2017 season of Grace Baylis ’20.
All in all, the Tigers had a winning week, posting an impressive win percentage near 80 percent. From swimming to volleyball to field hockey record books, the Tigers notched successes. They’ll look to have a strong finish to the fall season with their upcoming NCAA tournaments and start the winter season off with a bang. Check back next week to learn about all things Princeton Athletics — By The Numbers.
Harrison Blank is an assistant Sports editor at the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
I graduated from Princeton during the pandemic. I remember being excited to have recently joined the Terrace F. Club and to work on my junior paper before suddenly being kicked off campus and thrown into two years of uncertainty. Throughout that time of change and isolation, I had a lot of time to think about what a meaningful life might look like for me.
I discovered that my answer to what a meaningful life should be is this: As long as I have a roof over my head and my bills are paid, with a little fun money here and there, I can find happiness anywhere. And while I believe this to be true, I often wonder whether this approach is really making the most of my life after the Princeton experience.
The truth is meaning can be found in all forms of life. There never was — or is — a singular right way to live one’s life. Having a Princeton degree doesn't change this reality. Princeton’s privilege will always be a part of our lives, but the many ways in which we choose to go forth after this experience all deserve the same validation and appreciation, regardless of how they differ from the ‘ideal’ of an Ivy League graduate. Especially for the mundane.
In talking to some of my fellow Princeton grads, the feeling that we are not living up to our Princeton degrees or that we are somehow behind in life seems to be a commonly held anxiety. Many of our classmates are making obscene amounts of money right out of undergrad, marrying their Princeton sweethearts, becoming social media stars, being named Forbes 30 under 30 recipients, and so much more. If they were able to accomplish all of this soon after leaving Princeton, what are we doing wrong?
Earlier this year, Nicholas Tippenhauer, Assistant Dean for Studies in Rockefeller College, published an article on dealing with the pressures of being a student while worrying about success during and after Princeton. As a fellow FLI graduate and Questbridge scholar, the experiences he detailed resonated with me beyond words, and got me thinking about what success means to me — as well as the undue pressure we place on ourselves so soon after completing one of the most challenging educational experiences in the country.
While I am a content creator, I realized that a lot of my feelings of inadequacy are sourced from the very thing I love — social media. Every day we see seemingly everyone around us traveling to some new destination or celebrating some new life milestone we have yet to hit. Hundreds of likes and comments support the image of ourselves that we present to the world. However, it’s just that: an image. We choose what we want to share with the world, regardless whether it’s positive or negative. I have to accept that comparing myself to other alumni on social media is a never-ending battle that does not really define my success.
Coming from a tiny town in Arkansas, Princeton was a surprise for me. Though my mama always supported my passions, regardless of what they were, and saw Princeton as a blessing, it was only after coming to Princeton that the pressure of success made me question my decision to major in Music. Then after graduating, I felt like I wasn’t a “good” music major for not creating music or working in a music-related field. Once again I felt like I was not living up to my Princeton degree for majoring in a less lucrative area of study and working in a field different than my major, a sentiment I’ve heard from other Princeton alumni.
But what I have learned is that even if my life isn’t flashy, it isn’t without fulfillment.
I’m doing work that I love in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusions (DEI) at another institution while also making time to perform when I can. I have a roof over my head, my bills are paid, and my cat is well-fed and happy. I was able to finance a car with my own big girl credit and career, something my family could only dream of.
For many of us, especially first-generation Princeton alumni, there was no foundation to build our idea of success on. While others have had generations of a head start, our stories are just now beginning. And what a powerful story we are creating by celebrating our seemingly mundane lives by being able to provide for ourselves and our family.
This is not all to say that everything has been easy. I’m single with an abysmal dating life and am still actively working to make friends and find community as an adult. Some paychecks go a little further than others. Sometimes it’s hard to get out of bed in the morning and feel like I’m doing enough. But what matters most to me is that I’m happy.
While it can be important to strive for more, it is more important to be able to revel in your happiness. With such great pressure to live up to Princeton’s name as an alum, it is important to appreciate the beautifully mundane and unremarkable. Moments like when you pay your rent and treat yourself to coffee afterward. Or when you complete your assignments on time for your graduate program, or when you go out of your comfort zone on a Hinge date — and it is hilariously bad. There is so much beauty in just existing as you are.
Greatness is subjective, and if that’s what you seek, it will come. But for now? Enjoy the little victories in life that make the experience of being human, human. I’m proud of all of you for surviving the turmoil of Princeton, and now tackling adulthood one day at a time. Don’t sell yourself short by comparison, the thief of joy. Greet everyday as you can, and know, there’s always someone — a random stranger writing this article — rooting for you in the beautifully mundane. 

Kirsten Keels ’21 is currently a Program Manager for the Center of Equity, Inclusion, and Community and the Bard Queer Leadership Project at Bard College at Simon’s Rock. As an undergraduate she was a Music major and a Mathey RCA. She can be reached at: kkeels@simons-rock.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.More than 1,000 people packed into Hinds Plaza on Saturday for a ”Hands Off!” protest against the Trump administration, joining millions of others nationwide. Approximately 30 students attended a rally organized by Sunrise Princeton starting in Firestone Plaza, eventually joining the main event in town. Attendees at the campus rally expressed concern about a range of recent issues such as funding cuts to the University and deportations of international students, among other threats, with speakers urging protesters to “be loud on behalf of our international friends who are facing threats.”
Some protesters said they were grateful that Princeton has so far stood against Trump’s funding cuts, but they also expressed skepticism that the University would be willing to do more.
“We also must recognize that Princeton is not going to save us,” said Kristin Nagy ’27, an organizer for Students for Prison Education, Abolition and Reform.
The students then marched through East Pyne and made their way to the town, where hundreds of others had gathered. This larger protest was emceed by Laura Zurfluh of Indivisible Cranbury. The protest featured Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12); Reverend Bob Moore, the executive director of Coalition for Peace Action; NJ Senator Andrew Zwicker; Assemblyman Roy Freiman; and Assemblywoman Mitchelle Drulis, as well as various representatives of local activist groups.
Attendees cited a multitude of reasons for showing up: Elon Musk and DOGE’s large-scale layoffs, the kneecapping of the Department of Education, the arrests and deportations of immigrants by ICE, the overhaul of social security, the administration’s recent tariffs, Trump’s attacks on NPR and PBS, and more.
The protestors held signs that ranged from “hands off our neighbors” to “only you can fight fascism,” “Down with DOGE,” “mass deportation is a crime against humanity! Fuck I.C.E.!” “Dissent is patriotic,” and “Dear Lord, please take the Sharpie away from him.”
New Jersey Senator Andrew Zwicker said in a speech that the administration is failing to uphold the Constitution.
“We refuse to let them make a mockery of our Constitution. We refuse to let them go after freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, freedom of love. After the Fourth Amendment, the 14th Amendment, we refuse to let them take people off the streets without due process, different skin color, who were born in a different country,” he said.
Gary Pearsall, another attendee of the rally, said that he was politically active in high school, but hadn’t since then been motivated to come to a rally until recently, when he was angered by the actions of the administration.
“I’ve watched the ebbs and flows over the decades,” Pearsall said. “The right has gotten to a point where they are unwilling to lose and … they’re ready to take it all by force and shove their vision of what the United States should be down everyone else’s throat.”
Pearshall added that he would like his grandchildren to “grow up in the same country [he] did.”
The protest emphasized the importance of elevating younger voices. Gregory Stankiewicz GS ’05, the statewide coordinator for the New Jersey Community Schools Coalition, said that “the target of the [Trump administration] is our children and young adults.”
“We stand instead in the rich American tradition of seeing education as a way of binding all of us together, of preparing our children for the future, as a way of strengthening America.”
Assemblyman Roy Freiman, the deputy majority leader, spoke about the harms of research funding cuts.
“Princeton University, right across the street, is under threat and is being punished by Trump because they believe in free speech … Trump has stopped cancer research right here in New Jersey because he does not agree with universities,” Freiman said.
Amy Torres, a speaker at the protest, commended New Jersey Senator Cory Booker’s record-breaking 25-hour filibuster protesting Trump and his administration. Her comment prompted chants of “Cory” among the crowd of protesters.
Mary Delia, an attendee of the protest, noted she was “inspired by Cory Booker.”
“I really do believe that we needed that moment in time to light a fire under people,” Delia said.
She noted that protests are important for engaging others in a political cause. “If having a protest like this and seeing this many people inspires more people to get out, then I feel like we’ve served a purpose from being here.”
Another attendee, Chris Delaney, went to the protest because Trump is “destroying our democracy.” She stressed the importance of Medicare and Social Security, which 71.6 million people rely on in the United States.
Delaney went to the rally with her sister, Maria Lombardi. The protest was Lombardi’s first, and she told the ‘Prince’ she was motivated to come out to the protest after seeing information about it online.
The final speaker of the rally was Watson Coleman, the representative for Princeton, N.J. She opened with a focus on women’s rights by stating that she should be able to “make decisions for [her] own body.”
“This is the most corrupt and incompetent administration in my lifetime,” Coleman said.
When looking back to when President Trump entered office on Jan. 21, Coleman said she believed the nation back then was in a moment of uncertainty.
“We’re no longer in that moment. We’re in a movement.”
Christopher Bao is a head News editor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Princeton, N.J. and typically covers town politics and life.
Clara Docherty is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
When the cornerstone of East Pyne Hall was laid in 1897, Princeton alumni were resolutely furious. They dubbed it the “Crime of ‘97,” rebuking the discordant look of the Victorian Gothic building and mourning the demolition of the old chapel and East College. They felt that the new style of East Pyne could not compare to the erstwhile aesthetic of the university. Sound familiar?
Today, of course, East Pyne is upheld as a scion of Princeton architecture and criticism has turned elsewhere. In 1999, Catesby Leigh ’79 lamented Frist and Woolworth as “architecture whose spiritual horizons have narrowed to the point of utter inconsequentiality.” While these buildings have gained acceptance, the deconstructivist Lewis Library was recently denounced as a “Minecraft glitch,” and many now bemoan the austere aesthetics of Princeton’s contemporary construction.
But this reproach ignores how architectural ideals are determined and who a style is meant to serve. Princeton’s newest buildings are not intended to reinvigorate the past. Rather, the new style disengages from traditional footprints and facades to draft a novel visual language for Princeton.
Many of the cherished historic buildings on our campus obey a decorative agenda, holding that the outward appearance of a structure can be divorced from, and supersede, our residential uses for it. Conversely, the new style posits that a structure’s form must be thoroughly attuned to the human interactions it will facilitate. Princeton’s contemporary, post-decorative pursuit denies the separation of appearance from function, abandoning the project of visual hegemony and taking assertive aesthetic risks.
The nostalgic architecture most frequently heralded in critiques is that of Ralph Adams Cram, the prodigious early 20th-century architect behind much of Princeton’s upperclass housing. Cram sought to evoke the elite educational atmospheres of Oxford and Cambridge in his work, assuming homogeneity in gender, ability, and lived experience among its inhabitants. This is readily observable: his structures rely on single-gender occupancy for facilities, exhibit low accessibility, and, built before the relatively recent notion of ‘campus culture,’ contain a dearth of communal spaces.
As opposed to Cram’s more imitative approach, the architectural firm TenBerke’s design for Yeh College and New College West started from scratch to discern how a community could thrive at Princeton. Their approach was guided by ambitious ideals including the permeation of the outdoors indoors, degendered privacy, total accessibility, the primacy of community, and sustainable climate control. The colleges feature spaces for performing, dining, art-making, and socializing unseen in Cram's older sites. Thus, they don’t “look like” anything else on campus — that’s the point. Our housing need not be imitative, it can boldly put forward a new thesis about the nature of communities.
To enjoy purpose-built architecture, we cannot construct nostalgically. Whitman College lies stuck in an architectural ‘uncanny valley’ as an unsuccessful hybrid of the contemporary and traditional. It attempts to replicate Cram’s masonry charm without access to its traditional artisans or reference points. The result is disorienting: Whitman’s Community Hall is nearly devoid of decoration beyond the first eleven feet of height, a far cry from the intricate beams, colorful stained glass, and wooden grotesques of traditional neo-Gothic halls. Although it has some exceptionally well-designed vignettes, such as its drawbridge entrance and central tower, the complex as a whole does not form a confident aesthetic assertion.
On the other hand, the contemporary projects are unapologetically of our time: they ditch the mimicry of revival and the irony of postmodernism, preferring an aesthetic of sincerity. The monolithic buildings reflect the University’s collectivist ethos, suggesting stalwart communities and grounded institutions. The peripheral arms of Yeh wind across greenspaces to conjoin at strange angles, the edges crisp and the brickwork clean. Forget Cram’s isolated entranceways and tight passes — this is architecture intentionally scaled up, where buildings become expansive hubs for connectivity. Beyond their aesthetic merit, these works also vigorously promote sustainability, the profusion of mass timber across the new projects serving as a fine case study in both material sincerity and carbon-conscious engineering.
Critics of this contemporary aesthetic often construe the project as a struggle against tradition. Noted architect Mark Alan Hewitt argued that in the construction of the new residential college bearing her name, Mellody Hobson ’91 should press for architecture that “represents continuity rather than obtrusive change.” Julianna Lee ’25 shared a similar opinion, asserting that continuity in style allows Princeton to “remain Princeton.” Unlike Hewitt and Lee, I believe that the great, ineffable continuity of Princeton lies in its lineage of students. This communal continuity beautifully transcends the current built landscape and instead seeks to manifest in a range of new physical spaces.
Princeton is decisively ushering in new institutional values, and new construction is styling the campus to reflect them. When Hobson College’s concept plan was revealed in February 2022, Princeton Municipal Planner Michael LaPlace pushed back, saying that “the colors, the massing, the height seems… corporate and very fish-out-of-water.”
Although LaPlace’s assertion may have felt accurate in 2022, Hobson’s environs will have greatly changed by the time it is completed in August 2027. By that time, “central campus” will no longer only refer to the cozy brick of Brown Hall, Jones Hall, and McCosh Infirmary. The neighborhood will include the angled stone panels of the new Princeton University Art Museum, the roman-brick Frist Health Center, and the perforated steel facade of the Class of 1986 Fitness and Wellness Center. Although this picture might frighten our school’s more skeptical contingent, I very much look forward to seeing it actualized.
In stark opposition to the alleged “cultural and architectural decline” underway at Princeton, I firmly believe that the university is experiencing an architectural renaissance. We find ourselves in the midst of tremendous growth in built space — a staggering 2,381,700 additional square feet. As a result, critical evaluations of style, feel, and function have reached the forefront of the institutional conscience, producing architecture with refreshing candor. Yes, at times, this architecture disregards the past, but not callously — instead, with a firm conviction to materialize the communal and academic ideals of the present, set in brick and mortar.
Robert Mohan is a junior from Phoenix, Arizona studying Art & Archaeology (History of Art). He can be reached at robert.mohan[at]princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.New holes in the ground have opened up over the past few years during the University’s construction boom, usually tucked within residential areas on campus or large construction sites. However, the latest to crop up has defied norms and created a large and noticeable presence in front of Firestone Library, one of campus’s most notable sites.
The hole, located next to a prominent walking path on the west side of Firestone Library facing East Pyne, is a standard maintenance excavation to replace electrical switchgear equipment, according to Director of Facilities Communications Karen Fanning.
“The work is anticipated to be complete by the end of November and the area will be restored to its original [lawn] condition,” she wrote in an email to The Daily Princetonian. She also noted, “It is standard operating procedure to have the area marked out before digging these small holes.”
Students held mixed reactions about the project. Ahania Soni ’27 told the ‘Prince’ in an interview, “If they have to construct things I respect that, but it is a little annoying. This is my safe space, and I do feel like the hole intrudes a little bit.”
Conversely, Ryan Moores ’28 told the ‘Prince,’ “I honestly didn’t even notice the hole until you mentioned it. There’s so much construction going on all the time that it’s become a new normal.”
When asked about campus construction as a whole, Toussaint Santicola Jones ’25 said he felt “the construction could be stuff that’s done quickly over summer or winter.”
“I feel like they [dig holes] in the middle of times when people are touring,” Santicola Jones continued. “New students are coming and they’re like, ‘what the hell is gonna be happening the whole time we’re here?’”
In response to Jones’ comment, Fanning explained that “in some cases, work orders that are submitted to Facilities require immediate attention that cannot wait until the summer.”
Several other holes have appeared around campus in connection with smaller construction projects. On Elm Drive outside of Whitman College, chalk markings show areas that will be dug up to evaluate existing utilities, which is an ongoing procedure throughout the year.
Additionally, a hole on the west side of Jadwin Hall is the result of waterproofing repairs outside the B-level of Jadwin Hall. Fanning says that the area will be restored after the project is complete, which should be by the end of December.
Fanning told the ‘Prince’ that excavated areas are carefully selected to minimize disturbance to campus.
“Facilities plans and schedules as much work as reasonable over the summer and tries to limit campus impact to the greatest extent throughout the year,” Fanning said.
Irene Kim is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Midterms week is hectic, filled with books, papers, problem-sets, and caffeine. While balancing upcoming assignments and exams, we students need a place to do all of our work. Rather than locking yourself in your room, here are ten libraries on campus that might help you check one more thing off of your to-do list this week.
Nestled between Frist Campus Center and McCosh Hall, the Architecture Library is a convenient stopover site to work. As one of the smaller campus libraries, it’s tucked into a second-floor corner of the glass Architecture Building. The rectangular floor plan consists of central stacks with soft lounge chairs and desks around the periphery overlooking Frist North Lawn. Each desk includes a personal light and a rolling office chair — tinted windows also filter in natural light. This library is quiet and attracts few students, making it a great space to concentrate.
Rating: 4/5
The Chancellor Green Library is the only library on this list that isn’t a branch of the Princeton University Library, but its iconic stained glass windows, cushy leather chairs, and study carrels make it a well-known spot in East Pyne. This beautiful two-story rotunda looks like a scene from a storybook with its rich colors and warm shades of brown. The first floor features study nooks lined with books, while the upper floor has private wooden cubicles. Sound carries easily here, making it more appropriate for independent study than group work.
Located in Frist Campus Center, the East Asian Library feels like an ancient labyrinth hidden in a modern building. The main wing of the library is accessible through a third floor entrance, and going down the sloped hallway that leads to its stacks in Jones Hall transports you into another world. Inside, the library has a musty old book smell, wooden chairs, leather-bound tomes, and old-fashioned stepladders. During the day, the library is bathed in warm light from a few dusty windows. This library is a good place to lose yourself in time.
Rating: 3/5
For a subterranean library, the Engineering Library has an incredible offering of open spaces and light. Accessible from Lewis Library, Fine Hall, and McDonnell Hall, this sprawling library includes a collaborative atrium with soaring windows, study tables lit by glowing artificial light, soft lounge chairs, and study pods encased in glass. The color palette of light blue, green, and yellow gives the space a calming atmosphere. The Engineering Library also has group board games available to borrow and a lesser-known B floor with stacks and a few places to sit and work.
Rating: 5/5
At the northern edge of campus, Firestone Library towers over Princeton with its gothic stone architecture. It is by far the largest library, with six main floors to explore. The first floor features the Trustee Reading Room, Tiger Tea Room, open collaborative spaces, and reservable study rooms with whiteboard walls. Deeper in the belly of Firestone, you’ll find students hunched over study carrels in absolute silence. One of the most highly sought after rooms is in the Firestone tower, at the topmost floor with a view that stretches beyond campus. Unlike other libraries, Firestone stays open until 2 a.m. every weeknight. It’s a popular spot during midterms week, reading period, and finals, where it transforms into a lively study hub.
Next to Fine Hall, the eccentric, curved structure of the Lewis Science Library seems like a figment from a dream. The library houses multiple lecture halls, an underground connection to McDonnell, Fine Hall, and the Engineering Library, and a few floors of study spaces. It is known for its second floor “Treehouse,” a dazzling space with hanging lights, whiteboards, and tall glass windows. It can be challenging to navigate through this library due to its unusual floor plan — not all of its floors are connected — but it’s a fun, innovative space to work in.
Temporarily relocated from its place next to the Princeton University Art Museum, the Marquand Library of Art and Archaeology currently resides on the secluded C floor of Firestone Library. The large, warmly-lit square atrium features two long tables and a two-story ceiling. The space is open for studying, but drinks are not allowed and book bags must be sequestered in bins. As the most isolated of the ten libraries, Marquand is a decent space for quiet, solo studying or reading.
Rating: 1/5
The Mendel Music Library is housed like a tiered cake hidden cased in glass in the Woolworth Center for Musical Studies. Its fairly small, stacked floor plan makes it a less versatile space, and the surrounding glass walls offer little privacy. However, it has no shortage of natural light, and its tan wood and white walls lend it a clean aesthetic. The first floor has two workspaces, while the second has a reading room with warm lighting and carrels. The third floor features stunning full skylights but is reserved for graduate students in the music department.
Rating: 2/5
The Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library is located on the northeast side of campus across from the Computer Science building and Friend Center. Because of its nondescript brick architecture, it’s easy to overlook on the way to the Engineering Quad. While this library is a branch of the University Library, it does not have open study spaces for students and instead hosts classes and houses the University Archives.
The Stokes Library in Wallace Hall is a short walk from the SPIA fountain and is one of the few libraries with a selection of standing desks. Its modern appearance with bright fluorescent lights makes it an ideal choice for staying up until midnight. Similar to the third floor of Frist Campus Center, the Stokes Library has rows of long tables with horizontal lights — and an upgrade to rolling office chairs instead of wooden chairs. This library is a suitable option to study either alone or with friends not far from central campus.
Learn more about each of the campus library locations here and view their open hours here.
Jessica Wang is a member of the Class of 2026 and a staff writer for the Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at jessica.wang[at]princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As students returned to campus after winter break, many in undergraduate housing were met with unwelcome guests: rats and mice. Reports of infestations spread quickly, with students spotting rodents in dorm rooms, hallways, and common rooms.
Rodents have been a documented issue in upperclass housing for years, notably in buildings such as Brown Hall. However, multiple first-year students from both New College West (NCW) and Yeh College told The Daily Princetonian that they have seen rodents in their common rooms since before fall break, and the infestation issue has only gotten worse.
Yeh resident John Wallar ’25 told the ‘Prince’ that he returned to his dorm during Wintersession to find that he had a mouse under his bedside table. “I heard a little scurrying, and I was like, okay, something probably just shifted,” said Wallar. “And then it continued.”
After contacting the Public Safety (PSAFE) non-emergency number, Wallar was offered a bed in the infirmary or the option to stay in a friend’s room. “The next day, someone from Facilities … came and put two mouse traps,” said Wallar. “Since then, I’ve had no other encounters with the small furry critter.”
Another resident of Yeh College, Kai Harting ’28, informed the ‘Prince’ that there have been reports of mice on his floor since December. Once, Harting’s zee group resorted to catching a mouse by themselves in a cup before releasing it outside.
Lizzie Himmelfarb ’28, who is in the same zee group as Harting, said this mouse was one of two mice spotted in her room and one of many on her floor.
Facilities have since been contacted about the problem on Harting and Himmelfarb’s floor in Yeh. Complaints from other students have continued to emerge.
“It took a while for Facilities to bring traps,” said Olivia Perry ’28, who also lives in New College West. Perry continued that Facilities found “four baby mice who lived in my mattress topper over break … it’s basically like seven mice died in our room.”
In an email to the ‘Prince,’ University spokesperson Ahmad Rizvi said, “It is normal to see an uptick in mice activity during colder months as they seek warmth.”
“It is also common to see an increase in such activity after a period of extended vacancy,” added Rizvi.
Undergraduates like Wallar and Danny Gall ’28 reported calling the non-urgent PSAFE line or Facilities to reach out to the University for help in exterminating the pests in their rooms.
Rizvi told the ‘Prince’ that to keep buildings pest-free, “weekly exclusion work is also being performed. This work includes sealing up potential entry points around a building like cracks, gaps and holes to prevent pests from entering” in addition to regular maintenance.
Facilities, in partnership with Western Pest, keeps two technicians on campus Monday through Friday to handle routine work and respond to service calls. Facilities recommends a “clean environment with no food left out. Food should be stored in glass or hard plastic containers and trash should be regularly emptied.” Students can contact the Facilities Service Center at service@princeton.edu or 609-258-8000 if they encounter any pests.
Hallie Graham is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ from Portland, Tenn. She typically covers construction and architecture, facilities and housing, and University dining.
Ben Goldston is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On a given weeknight, the New College West (NCW) Ceramics Studio is alive with artistic creation. Spinning a pot dotted with flowers or crafting a handmade handle for a coffee mug, the space allows undergraduates to tap into their creativity and take a break from academic demands. Equipped with eight pottery wheels, stoneware clay, multicolored glazes and slips, molds, and other tools, there’s just one thing missing: graduate students — and they want in.
According to their website, the studio “offer[s] basic instruction in functional and sculptural ceramics” through “self-directed work in clay,” “instructional workshops on topics like coil-building, pinch pots, slab building and wheel-throwing,” and “study breaks on a selection of topics.” Limited by a 10-person capacity, the NCW studio does not currently permit graduate students to use the space.
The studio opened in the spring of 2023, replacing the University’s former ceramics studio, which was located in the now-demolished First College and closed in 2022. Graduate students were permitted to use the former studio.
This exclusion of the 3,212 graduate students from the chance to use the studio prompted a group of graduate students to form the Graduate Ceramics Association (GCA). The organization is composed of passionate graduate-level ceramicists lobbying for access to the studio.
In an interview with The Daily Princetonian, Rias Reed GS, co-president of GCA, described the origins of the group.
“It was really out of a couple grad students trying to access that space and being denied that we decided that creating a group was … one of the first steps into going through the process of advocating for grad students to be allowed into the studio at New College West,” he said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’
The GCA recently released a 16-page pilot report explaining their goals. According to the report, “The formation of the Graduate Ceramics Association was inspired by a vision to extend the profound benefits of ceramics — a powerful tool for creative expression, mental wellness, and community building — to all members of the university.”
On Apr. 30 and May 7, the group helped coordinate two pilot workshops in the studio: one on handbuilding and one on glazing. Following the workshop, the GCA  argued that participation yielded a positive impact on mental health and wellbeing. According to the report, 80 percent of participants noted increased relaxation and decreased anxiety, while 73 percent reported increased joy following the workshops.
However, logistical concerns still stand in the way of regular studio access for graduate students.
Debbie Reichard, NCW Ceramics Studio Manager, AnneMarie Luijendijk, Head of New College West, and Johanna Rossi Wagner, Dean of New College West wrote to the ‘Prince’ regarding some potential limitations.
“We are very pleased that [the studio] is in high demand by the undergraduate students. We also know of the many graduate students, staff, and faculty who would love to be involved in this studio,” they wrote in an email to the ‘Prince.’ “Unfortunately, due to current space, budget, and staffing constraints, we have not yet met the needs of the undergraduate community we are meant to serve. We look forward to discussing possibilities for the future that would help expand access for a larger community.”
In their report, the GCA has attempted to address some of these concerns. The group recommends hiring graduate students as student studio managers as well as reserving a select number of spots for graduate students in scheduling. The GCA has stated that the Graduate Student Government Event Board can supply the group with some funding as a recognized student organization. In their report, the group also wrote that “TigerWell has indicated a willingness to fund this initiative over a longer term, recognizing the substantial mental wellness benefits it offers.”
TigerWell is a group dedicated to promoting wellbeing on campus beyond traditional healthcare. The group did not respond to a request for comment from the ‘Prince’ at the time of publication.
“The Graduate School is working with the Graduate Ceramics Association and campus partners to move towards providing access for graduate students,” Tracy Meyer, Director for Communications and External Engagement of the Graduate School, wrote to the ‘Prince.’
Reed also believes that integrating undergraduate and graduate students would benefit both parties.
“When a graduate student is the person underneath your professor who is grading your work, or who is leading a precept … those power dynamics don’t allow for a more genuine, more authentic, more enriching cultural or meaningful or personal relationship to occur,” he told the ‘Prince.’
According to Reed, sharing the NCW space could serve as a place “where undergraduate and graduate students can learn from each other … that only really serves to benefit both populations and essentially elevate the entirety of the university.”
Conversations between GCA, the Graduate School, and NCW about graduate student access to the studio will continue into the fall.
Isabella Dail is the head editor of The Prospect for the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at id7289[at]princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Count yourselves lucky, Class of 2029. Your rooms are already set aside for you. Meanwhile, rising sophomores and some rising juniors and seniors will vie for residential college rooms starting on Wednesday, April 2.
In the upcoming days, students will draw into the various four-year residential college options in a wide range of buildings built from 1877 to 2022.
There are 1,001 rooms available during this year’s residential college draw. Some will end up in a one-room triple or a 99-square-foot trapezoidal single, and one lucky group will find themselves in a 1,115 sq. ft. quad in Whitman, half the size of the median newly-constructed single-family home in the United States.
Butler College’s room draw will start off the set. Each following day, students intending to draw into Forbes, Mathey, New College West, Rockefeller, Whitman, and Yeh will draw in that order. The final day of residential college draw is April 10.
Every year, first-year rooms are withheld from the room draw process so that incoming first years can be assigned to advising groups centered around their Residential College Advisor. Rising sophomores who requested housing accommodations have already been assigned their rooms.
The number of available rooms in each college varies year-by-year depending on the number of rooms reserved for incoming freshmen or students requesting accommodations. The number of available rooms on the upperclass draw list has increased by 11.4 percent — 96 rooms — since last year, even though there are 2,234 students on the list, 40 fewer than last year.
Whitman is offering the most singles this year, with 129 available to the 478 students currently on the Whitman draw list. Rockefeller College, in contrast, has the fewest number of singles up for draw, with 58 rooms available to the 393 students on the draw list.
Students drawing in Butler College have the best chances of getting a “quingle” — a spacious quad with a common room and independent bedrooms for each resident. Butler, with 11 available quingles, is followed by the three newest residential colleges, New College West, Yeh, and Whitman, which each have eight.
For students seeking doubles, Forbes is most plentiful, with 68 two-person rooms available — three times as many as next-in-line Mathey’s 23. However, over 80 percent of two-person rooms offered in Forbes are single-room doubles.
Antoun Salib ’26 is the student in a solo draw group with the first overall pick in the Mathey draw.
“I drew alone, and that’s because I want a single,” Salib told the ‘Prince.’ “I’m really just looking for size and location, so I’m probably just gonna choose the biggest single in Little [Hall],” Salib continued. While Joline Hall and Campbell Hall singles have, on average, 20 additional square feet, Little Hall is more centrally located.
Murley-Pivirotto Tower in Whitman College and 99 Alexander Street, part of Forbes College, have the highest average square footage per resident, with around 197 square feet and 207 square feet respectively.
However, there are discrepancies in the data: According to the University’s officially published available rooms list, Room 205, a two-bedroom double with an en suite bathroom at 99 Alexander Street — colloquially known as the “Pink House” — offers residents 340 square feet each and close proximity to the building’s private kitchen and lounge. Meanwhile, the floor plans of the Pink House show that Room 205 is much smaller than claimed by the university, offering each resident closer to 200 square feet.
The two halls with the lowest average square footage per person are Lauritzen Hall in Whitman and Forbes Main Inn with 134 sq. ft. and 137 sq. ft., most likely due to the high amount of low-square-footage singles in Whitman and the high amount of small single-room doubles in Forbes.
With the exception of quads, Rockefeller College has the highest average square footage among all room types when compared to other residential colleges. On average, Rocky doubles are larger than Forbes triples. However, Forbes has the largest singles.
By the end of the residential college draw, four students will have the opportunity to live in the largest sophomore quad on campus, 1981 F201 in Whitman College, which has 1115 square feet. As one former inhabitant commented on TigerDraw:
“Amazing room! The four singles are all larger than any one person reasonably needs, and the common room is still not crowded with a couch, two armchairs, a futon, a fridge, and a TV on a cabinet.”
Four other students will have the privilege of living in the fifth smallest quad across residential college draw, Campbell 32 in Rockefeller College, which has 422 square feet. On TigerDraw, one reviewer wrote:
“Campbell basically has the smallest quads of any res college. Its possible to debunk only if all of the desks and bookshelves are moved out…Campbell also looks like a WW2 bunker. you get used to it.”
Whether you score a palace in Whitman or a broom closet in Mathey, at the end of the day, it’s all just luck of the draw.
Vincent Etherton is a head Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Alexa Wingate is a head Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Iman Monfopa Kone contributed reporting.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Between cramming for exams and navigating the sprawling campus, Princeton students are always on the go. However, what often gets overlooked in the hustle is something they rely on every day: the water that keeps them going.
To assess the taste of campus water and its quality, I sampled water from dining halls and residential college water fountains. What I found might not surprise you: water at the newer colleges passed the test of student approval, while Roma isn’t quite as satisfying. However, students have found some ways to improve their hydration experience with some refreshing alternatives.
Choi Dining Hall, one of the newer additions to campus, sets the standard for great water quality. The water here tastes fresh, crisp, and clean, making it one of the most reliable places to hydrate. The water fountains in Yeh and New College West are also consistently well-maintained, with clear, cold water that doesn’t have any noticeable metallic or chemical aftertaste.
At the other end of the spectrum, Roma’s water is a different story. The water fountains here taste just like any other standard campus water source, yet with a slightly rusty undertone. When it comes to the dining hall, the water quality becomes more subjective—Roma frequently offers fruit-infused spa water, which can be a hit or miss depending on the fruit selection of the day. But for Hannah Feinberg ’28, it’s essential. “The fruit water is the only thing that gets me out of bed,” she said.
Whitman, on the other hand, is highly unpredictable. Some water fountains appear slightly rusty and deliver a taste that raises eyebrows, while others are perfectly fine. The dining hall follows this inconsistency. Unlike Yeh or Forbes, Whitman only offers a water faucet and soda machine water that comes out of the lemonade, “As a Yeh resident, the water in Whitman, in comparison, tastes a bit more stale and recognizable than the other residential colleges,” said Abigail Jung ‘28.
Forbes, much like Roma, frequently offers fruit-infused water in the dining hall, sometimes with cucumber or citrus additions. Adam Vu ‘28, a Forbes resident, gave the infused water a thumbs up. “Fruit water is all I ever known. It’s pretty good, too. Very consistent,” he said.
The water fountains at Forbes often have a taste that some students compare to Whitman’s, with a slightly metallic or tap-like flavor, making them less appealing for regular use. I also noticed this twinge of flavor when I tasted the fountains to assess my review.
Finally, Butler College offers a consistently solid water experience. “I think it tastes fine. I usually use the water bottle refill stations, but it tastes pretty filtered to me,” said Mohemeen Ahmed ‘28. Butler also shares a dining hall with Whitman, so the reviews on the cafeteria are the same as those mentioned earlier for the Whitman review.
After trying different spots around campus, I found that Yeh College and New College West consistently offer clean, crisp, and reliably refreshing water. Butler College, I believe, comes as the best second option, followed by Whitman College as third. Rocky and Mathey College tie with Forbes College for the bottom tier. According to water tests conducted by the ‘Prince,’ water is generally safe around campus to drink. By comparing taste, consistency, and student experiences, the results uncover how something as fundamental as water can influence daily life and shape the student experience at Princeton.
Cynthia Lee is a contributing writer for The Prospect. She is a member of the class of 2028 and can be reached at cl9425@princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections@dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The 2026 plan for campus expansion is well underway: Yeh College and New College West (NCW) opened in Fall 2022, the Princeton University Art Museum (PUAM) is set to open in Fall 2025, and University Health Services (UHS) are moving into Frist Health Center (FHC) in January. The Daily Princetonian sat down with the man helping guide the trajectory this campus expansion — University Architect Ron McCoy GS ’80.
As University architect, McCoy is responsible for “understand[ing] what the University aspires to accomplish on any given project,” including selecting and “guiding” the appropriate architects for each project.
Since returning to Princeton in 2008, McCoy has watched the campus grow by nearly 50 percent through the 2016 and 2026 campus plans, the latter of which he oversees. The 2026 campus plan focuses on sustainability and growth of the campus, although balancing these two aspects can be difficult.
“If we were not growing, we could renovate and change our energy systems and drive down the amount of energy that we’re using on the campus,” McCoy explained.
Princeton intends to reach net zero by 2046 — “getting [there requires] three major tranches of effort,” McCoy said.
“One of them is converting the campus to geoexchange. The other one is building our own green infrastructure with solar panels and relying on the greening of the grid. And the third tranche of that is an aspirational taking of advantage of emerging technologies.”
The University recently reopened Poe Field after installing approximately 400 geoexchange bores below the space. Over half of the 2,000 total planned geo-exchange bores had been drilled across campus as of January 2024 and solar panels have been installed across campus.
McCoy’s work in fostering sustainability has not gone unnoticed. Earlier this year, McCoy was a featured honoree at the Consortium for Sustainable Urbanization for his “work advancing sustainable and equitable urbanization.”
“Princeton is a leader in sustainable design, and it’s not me, but I was a representative of what Princeton stands for,” he told the ‘Prince.’ “I think the recognition was really about Princeton.”
McCoy said that sustainable urbanization “requires advocacy at all levels … We all have to be committed to sustainability, and we are, which is really pretty amazing.” He added that the Office of Sustainability “are the broad leaders in sustainability efforts for the University,” but noted that the engineering group, the design and construction group, and the University architect must all also advocate for sustainability on campus.
He added that when selecting outside architects for any project, he has always chosen to “identify architects who also were committed to sustainability,” but has found that the architect pool has improved in that regard since his return to Princeton.
“It’s not a choice between a good architect and an architect who believes in sustainability. They’re one and the same these days,” he said. “That’s probably one of the most important, dramatic changes in the profession that I’ve witnessed.”
“This generation of campus development will be recognized as a time when the University made this commitment to sustainability,” McCoy said. He added that “future generations will look back at this time and see a change in the character and image of the buildings through their structural systems.”
He referred to the ongoing projects which use mass timber, a low-carbon alternative to concrete and steel. Several buildings from the 2026 plan use “one form or another of mass timber,” including PUAM, Hobson College, and Eric and Wendy Schmidt Hall.
Each current construction project lists the sustainable features of that building, such as energy efficiency, condensate reuse, daylight harvesting, and other sustainability efforts.
McCoy noted that investments into a building are not abandoned after construction is finished.
“We are fantastic stewards of our architecture on campus. We invest in them constantly, systems are renewed, roofing is renewed, interiors are renewed,” he explained.
The relevance of a building’s architectural style is more complicated, however.
“How do you get some historical perspective to avoid a momentary trend? That’s the challenge, and time will tell,” McCoy said of the newer colleges, but added that “there’s no reason they will not last as long” as the older buildings on campus.
Campus discourse has generated over architectural styles, with some defending the new, sleek designs of New College West and Yeh College, while others argue for preserving the continuity of the collegiate gothic style. McCoy emphasized that the glass present throughout the new designs popping up across campus helps us understand what a building’s purpose is before we even enter it.
“If you go up to a traditional collegiate gothic building, you have no idea what life is inside that building. Opening that door can be a shock, either pleasantly or disappointingly,” he described, referencing Rockefeller and Mathey Colleges. “Transparency, I think, softens the entrance,” he added.
Certainly, the 2026 plan has adopted this architectural ethos. McCoy explained that this plan, which includes the three new colleges as well as PUAM, FHC, and the new Environmental Sciences and School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, “is more of a framework that was created in dialogue with the University’s strategic plan.”
“We want our buildings to be contemporary and of our time, but also we want them to be respectful of the Princeton traditions of material, craft, and other architectural principles,” he explained. “Maybe there’s a stronger emphasis on that today [than there was for the 2016 plan] which helps unify the campus experience through the new buildings.”
McCoy did not name a preferred architectural style found on campus, instead referencing “favorite pieces of architecture from each era.” He added that Holder and Hamilton Halls “are some of the most exquisite pieces of collegiate Gothic architecture in the world” in his view, while the Andlinger Center is “one of [his] favorites because it is such a serene piece of architecture serving such a profound sort of research endeavor.”
He explained that while PUAM does not look like the buildings around it, the buildings around it don’t look like each other.
“We have 20 different styles of architecture on the campus, and every building around it is a different architectural style,” he said.
Instead, PUAM brings together the diverse architecture of upper campus.
“When you look from, say, in front of Witherspoon, down the diagonal, you see the echelon of the different pavilions linking to Brown Hall,” McCoy said. “If you look at the base of Brown Hall, you see that the gray granite of Brown Hall is picked up by the precast concrete [of PUAM].”
“When you’re inside the museum, [it’s] a kind of vehicle for viewing the campus … we’re only seeing part of the experience right now. Patience,” he added.
McCoy explained that “there is a kind of joy that the final experience gives you because you can never [really be there] as you’re shaping it. When you actually see the building open and you experience it as a lived experience … they’re all surprising in that regard.”
“We want to find that balance between innovation and continuity, between innovation and memory. That’s what makes the campus so special,” McCoy said.
Victoria Davies is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince’ who covers University operations.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Coming to Princeton as a first-year student, I noticed a recurring theme in conversations with juniors and seniors: they valued Princeton’s emphasis on community. Many of the students I talked to valued a deep familiarity with both their physical location and the people who inhabit it. Having a sense of community involves knowing one’s fellow class members and feeling connected to every part of campus. While many have critiqued Princeton as an “Orange Bubble” which students rarely venture out of, within that bubble, the common sentiment was that upper-class students felt a strong connection to their peers.
But with the campus expanding in size, the sentiment of community is fading. As Princeton increases class sizes and campus area, it runs the risk of weakening its small-college-style community. While I agree that Princeton should increase class sizes and welcome more people into our undergraduate community, the acceleration of this process may leave school unity behind.
First, while Princeton expanded the body with two new residential colleges, Yeh College (formerly New College East) and New College West (NCW), college spirit has lagged behind. This trend showed itself in casual ways, like when Yeh College didn’t have a mascot during Clash of Colleges and how NCW still does not have an actual name. There are also more concrete signs that the new colleges are not integrated into the school community: there are fewer sophomores in Yeh, leading to a community which is primarily first-years. For juniors and seniors who didn’t choose to live in the new colleges, Yeh and NCW are totally new communities and were not part of the campus that they once knew and identified with. For example, Ayeda Hamed ’23 said that, “I am mentally accustomed to thinking that campus ends at Poe Field.”
Second, campus construction has also divided us in space, making walking around campus a larger chore. As new construction barricades rise, students are more inclined to spend most of their day on one side of campus if they can, and access to even “central locations” like Frist Campus Center has been impeded. Indeed, the terms “South Campus” and “North Campus” have firmly set in, dividing what once could have been considered a short walk down Elm Drive.
Finally, the effects of the physical barriers imposed by construction are exacerbated by Princeton’s decision to double down on the four-year residential college model. Princeton chose to restrict the room draw process for rising juniors to rooms within their own residential colleges, reversing the tradition of allowing upper-class students to draw into any residential college. Some incoming first-years may struggle with finding a community if they cannot find their core group in their randomly allotted college. By restricting room draw options, Princeton prevents these students from diversifying their communities and limits the cross-college exchange that was once a common part of the campus living experience. Since students can’t move to other residential colleges, each college is becoming more self-contained.
Princeton probably doesn’t mean to harm the sense of campus community. However, their decisions still have real, negative impacts on the ways students navigate their Princeton journey. They alter social expectations (influencing questions such as “should you prioritize friendships within your own residential college?”) and could completely change what someone defines as their Princeton community.
As we get ready to welcome the Great Class of 2027 (the second year of expanded class sizes), we must reflect on the type of college community we are introducing them to. With continuous expansion, we face the risk of losing cohesive campus unity. If Princeton doesn’t take steps to address the waning sense of community, like reforming their room-draw process and fostering more residential college spirit in the newer colleges, all we will be doing is giving first-years a warm welcome into a campus coolly divided.
Aly Rashid (he/him) is a prospective SPIA major in the Class of 2026 from Lahore, Pakistan. He is a contributing columnist and associate editor of the Newsletter for the ‘Prince.’ Outside of the ‘Prince,’ he is Deputy Captain of the Princeton Model UN Team and International Orientation leader at the Davis IC.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Members of New College West (NCW), one of Princeton’s seven residential colleges, have not received HoagieMail emails since Aug. 18.
HoagieMail, the primary mode of communication between clubs and the student body, is known to be particularly active at the start of the academic year as organizations recruit prospective members and provide application information. The platform enables members of the University community to send emails to all seven of the residential college listservs at once. Emails typically include club announcements, student sales, and lost and found items.
The 827 student members of NCW from the Class of 2025 through the Class of 2028 are the only students affected by the error. Of the seven residential colleges, NCW has the smallest number of first-year members — representing 13 percent of the Class of 2028 with 192 first-years. HoagieMail correspondences from clubs and organizations are crucial for first-years looking to join new activities as they start their college experience.
In a statement to The Daily Princetonian, Co-President of the Hoagie Club (which runs HoagieMail) Windsor Nguyen ’25 wrote, “This is an issue on westwire’s end as they periodically purge hoagie[at]princeton.edu from their listserv.”
“There’s a history of this happening where residential colleges sometimes block emails. We’re always sending them on our side, but they’re blocking them from their side,” Co-President of the Hoagie Club George Chiriac ’25 explained in an interview.
He cited a similar incident in 2023 that also only impacted NCW students. It took two weeks to rectify, during which “a lot of hoagie email users emailed the NCW administration and pressured them to unblock the whole email again.”
“NCW may not be voluntarily blocking us. They may have just made a whitelist of college admin email addresses that are allowed to send and forgot to include hoagie[at]princeton.edu,” said Chiriac. “I think it’s easy for University administration to forget that students are really using this app, and it’s pretty important for many clubs on campus.”
The ‘Prince’ was unable to reach NCW staff before publication.
According to Chiriac,  it could take up to two weeks for the Hoagie team to look through the code on their end, and restore access to members of the NCW listserv.
Until this problem is sorted out, Chiriac recommends NCW students ask their friends in other residential colleges to forward them HoagieMail emails.
Meghana Veldhuis is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’ She is from Bergen County, N.J. and typically covers faculty and graduate students.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Water on campus may have changed taste and color this winter, according to a series of announcements by New Jersey American Water (NJAW) between December and February. NJAW supplies water to all of campus and most of the town of Princeton.
According to University spokesperson Jennifer Morrill, during this period, there was an “uptick in water quality complaints” on campus. In response to the numerous notices, The Daily Princetonian conducted an independent water analysis across 15 water fountains in all seven residential colleges over the last two weeks of February.
The ‘Prince’ tested a variety of factors, including salt concentration, pH, and water hardness. Using water testing strips, we sampled two water fountains in at least two halls of each residential college. Each fountain was retested once, unless values appeared high, in which case it was retested twice. Results were obtained by matching the strips to the kit’s color key, which rounded to the nearest 10.
Water generally fell within the EPA’s legally enforceable National Primary Regulations, which limit the levels of contaminants in drinking water.
However, in some residential college halls — Whitman’s 1981, Butler’s Bloomberg, and Rockefeller’s Witherspoon — the water was at the upper limit for some of the EPA’s secondary guidelines, which are meant to ensure good water taste rather than safety.
“They’re mainly there to make sure people drink tap water and don’t move to other water sources,” Peter Jaffé, a civil engineering professor, said in an interview with the ’Prince.’
The ‘Prince’ found that 1981 Hall had 5 ppm zinc, a concentration that puts it on the upper bound of the EPA Secondary guideline. In interviews with the ‘Prince,’ 1981 residents indeed described a strange taste in their hall’s water.
Camryn Crump ’27 said that the water has a “tang” and that she “boils it to take the taste away.” In general, she avoids getting water in 1981.
“You can definitely taste the difference,” Allan Wasonga ’26 said of the water in Whitman versus Frist. “The Frist water tastes more pure.”
Bloomberg and Witherspoon had salt concentrations of 250 ppm. While the EPA doesn’t have a set guideline for salt in drinking water, state governments like New York and Vermont recommend salt content of 250 ppm or below for “taste considerations.”
Witherspoon resident Sophie Feinblatt ’27 spoke to the ‘Prince’ about her experience with her hall’s water.
“The water here is a little odd,” she said. “Sometimes I don’t drink anything, so I’m definitely not drinking as much as I should.” She added that her roommate buys her own water and drinks that instead of the water fountain supply.
Meera Kochhar ’25, a Residential College Advisor in Witherspoon, also shared her thoughts on the water.
“I’m suspicious of the water fountains because all of them have warmish water and the spouts are blue or brown,” she wrote in a statement to the ‘Prince.’ “The water quality doesn’t feel the same as other places on campus.”
“Sometimes I will go to Buyers Hall for fresh, filtered water from one of the newer machines,” she wrote. Kochhar added that many students in her Advisee Group also avoid the water in Witherspoon.
Aicha Diakite ’25, who lives in Bloomberg, said that she noticed that the third floor water was “cloudy” and that “something about the taste was a bit off.”
All water fountains had a pH of around 6, which is below the recommended 6.5-8.5. pH is measured using a base ten logarithmic scale; a difference of 0.5 units corresponds to about 3.16 times more acidity than recommended. It appears that these pH levels are lower than those found in a 2023 water analysis by the ‘Prince.’
Jaffé said that lower pH is not cause for concern.
All colleges — except for Forbes — had calcium and magnesium content that corresponded to either “hard” or “very hard” water. Witherspoon had the hardest water of the fountains tested, with 300 ppm of dissolved calcium and magnesium. This is within the EPA’s hardness recommendation, up to 500 ppm.
Some students in affected halls told the ‘Prince’ that they are generally content with the water fountains.
Marceline Myronoff ’28, a Witherspoon resident, said that to him, the water “doesn’t taste too off.”
Wasonga also said that although he prefers the water in Frist, “I don’t really mind [the 1981 water taste] because I drink eight glasses a day.”
But for Kochhar, “at the end of the day, how good your water is will influence your hydration levels which will influence your health, productivity, and sense of feeling good.”
Maya Mukherjee is a News contributor and the head Podcast editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.At the tray return area in Princeton’s newest dining facility — Choi Dining Hall, shared by Yeh College and New College West — a small opening exists at the base of the metal wall for utensils. After you discard your leftover food in the compost bin, you place your plates onto the conveyor belt and watch them promptly disappear into the hands of a Campus Dining worker. Rarely do you see the faces of the workers on the other side or clearly hear a response to the “thank you” that you yell at the wall — your dirty plate seems to magically dissipate into thin air, and an endless stack of clean plates sit ready should you want to grab more food. Similar designs are replicated at other dining halls.
I eat at least two meals a day in one of Princeton’s four residential dining halls. This is likely also the norm for most student readers of this article. It might be surprising, then, to consider that the architecture of our dining halls is political — even dehumanizing — something revealed by the subtleties of the serveries’ designs.
“When I bend [over], I can see [students’] faces,” said Ebong Itomo, a Campus Dining employee who has worked at the Choi Dining Hall’s plate return area for three months. “I want to be seeing [the students] because when I’m going home or when I’m closing, I do see them on my way.” But when asked whether he would prefer that the face barrier didn’t exist, Itomo responded that he would “not like [the back area] to be exposed,” because it would not be “good for [students] to be seeing inside.”
Choi Dining Hall was designed to give “architectural expression” to values such as diversity and inclusion. Yet when considering the space with these values of inclusive community spaces in mind, it seems that the “modern” 21st-century additions to one of Princeton’s most prominent community spaces feature a form of segregation between the students and dining hall staff.
Itomo expresses a complex perspective shaped by experience — one that acknowledges both the value of brief moments of recognition and the reality of working behind the scenes. A full view of the dishwashing area, with its constant motion and mess, might not feel like something meant for public display. At the same time, his desire to see students — even in passing — reflects an understanding that visibility matters. That acknowledgment, however small, makes a difference.
But if workers like Itomo feel that their labor is meant to be hidden, it raises the question: why must certain types of work remain out of sight? What would it mean for Princeton’s campus culture if the spaces that sustain our daily lives — spaces where students and workers alike spend so much of their time — were designed to foster more moments of connection rather than separation between students and staff?
The way we construct the spaces that we inhabit — both publicly and privately — reflects political choices about visibility, power, and belonging, shaping not just how we move through them, but whom we are encouraged to see or ignore.
While most buffet-style restaurant services don’t prioritize a connection between the kitchen staff and the people they serve, Princeton’s dining halls are not private, commercialized spaces. As my colleague Asa Santos mentions, evidence suggests that Princeton students can benefit from a dining space constructed to prioritize interpersonal connections with staff — and dining halls are precisely a space where those interactions can occur.
The small architectural details of a dining hall may seem trivial — especially because many workers are visible in some contexts, such as behind food counters — but the historical background of architectural features we often overlook remains an unignorable political force. Take the architectural history of the hallway, for example. Hallways first emerged in homes as a way of separating servants and preventing them from intruding on other occupants of the houses. Previously, rooms had all flowed into each other, requiring inhabitants to face one another when moving within the indoor space.
These architectural features in the dining halls are not just neutral design choices. They are symptoms of a broader social attitude, one that renders invisible the labor that keeps this campus running. The uncaring mentality embedded in these spaces and the attitudes of students do more than simply limit interaction — they subtly reinforce a hierarchy between those who eat and those who serve. It’s not merely the physical barriers that keep dining staff unseen. It’s also the social dynamics that permit this labor to be overlooked.
Yet this divide is not inevitable. If Princeton is committed to fostering an inclusive and interconnected community, then perhaps the most meaningful interventions aren’t just to be found in abstract values or mission statements, but also in the spaces we move through daily. The design of a dining hall — whether it invites interaction or erases presence — says something about who we acknowledge and who we don’t. And if we aren’t careful, these small, unnoticed details might just shape how we see — or fail to see — one another.
Siyeon Lee (she/her) is a sophomore and an associate Opinion editor from Seoul, South Korea. She can be reached at siyeonlee[at]princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.
On May 2, the Princeton Police Department (PPD) announced its new late-night rideshare program, in partnership with Uber, meant to eliminate intoxicated driving.
The program allows Princeton residents, visitors, and University students to receive one free ride worth up to $15 weekly on Thursdays through Saturdays between the hours of 8 p.m. and 2 a.m. While the program includes 22 pickup locations in town, the University eating clubs are not included.
Officially launched on May 5, eligible riders can now scan a QR code found on “Princeton PD Provides Your DD” posters displayed at the participating locations to receive their weekly voucher. The voucher can be saved for later use during eligible hours.
In an email comment to the ‘Prince,’ Sergeant Mike Strobel, commander of the PPD’s Traffic Safety Bureau, who was involved in the program’s initiation, specified that it is “available to anyone who comes to Princeton, visits a participating establishment, and has a drop-off destination within the town.”
Participating bars and restaurants include Agricola Eatery, Alchemist & Barrister, Conte’s Pizza, Ivy Inn, Mediterra Restaurant & Taverna, Metro North, Mistral, Roots Ocean Prime, Teresa Caffe, The Dinky Bar & Kitchen, The Perch at Peacock Inn, The Meeting House, Triumph Brewing Company, Winberie’s Restaurant & Bar, Witherspoon Grill, and Yankee Doodle Tap Room. The McCarter Theatre Center is also a participating location.
Strobel added that five private clubs also participate: the Institute Club of the Institute for Advanced Study, the Debasement Bar at the University's Graduate College, Pretty Brook Tennis Club, Springdale Golf Club, and TPC Jasna Polana golf club.
“The general community response has been great,” Strobel remarked, adding that more than 131 rides have been scheduled since the program’s inception.
The Uber voucher does not include any of the University’s 11 eating clubs as eligible pick-up locations. The nearest pick up location to Prospect Avenue is a few minutes away by foot at Ivy Inn, which is adjacent to the EQuad and closest to Charter Club.
If students are picked up at an eligible pick-up location, however, they can be dropped off near their residential halls via public roads surrounding campus.
The initiative has garnered support from town residents.
Jeff Edelstein, a reporter and columnist for The Trentonian, expressed his support for the program in an article, writing, “I’d…feel a lot better knowing that, in a pinch, [my son], his friends, my neighbor, you, anyone, could call themselves an Uber after drinking too much without worry about cost or getting into trouble.”
According to Strobel, donations fund the program and Uber requires no contract and charges no fees for the partnership .
Strobel added that the Princeton Policeman’s Benevolent Association, a labor union for Princeton police officers,made a significant contribution “to help get the program up and running with the hopes that participating establishments, riders, or anyone who wants to help combat drunk driving would donate.”
Currently, there is no method of verifying intoxication for a rider, but Strobel said “only those that need a sober ride home are utilizing [the program].”
Strobel is hopeful that neighboring towns will also implement the program so that residents can visit these towns and get home safely. “This is a great opportunity to really help tackle driving under the influence,” he said.
Louisa Gheorghita is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Senior News Writer Eden Teshome contributed reporting.
Please direct any corrections requests to corrections@dailyprincetonian.com.Princeton has historically been a walking campus — students can make the longest trek on campus, from Forbes College to the E-Quad, in about 25 minutes.
Transportation transformation, however, may be on Princeton’s horizon.
Simultaneously, students have become more spread out on campus, with more students living in the far south of campus due to the opening of two new residential colleges in 2022, Yeh and New College West. In August, the University announced a ban on personal electric vehicles (PEVs), prohibiting electric scooters, bikes, hoverboards, and skateboards from being used within a designated zone during “peak hours” of 7:30 a.m. through 4 p.m. on weekdays.
As students grapple with transportation options, transit patterns have been changing for some time. Ridership on TigerTransit, the University’s free bus service, has increased by 60 percent from pre-pandemic levels and by over 50 percent from 2022, according to Director of Transportation and Parking Services Charles Tennyson. The growing interest in the transit service comes as TigerTransit brings 17 new battery electric buses to replace its former diesel fleet.
“We suspect that a combination of increased frequency, greater visibility and access, and reliability of bus service is likely driving the ridership increases,” Tennyson wrote in a statement to The Daily Princetonian. For example, the Goheen Walk Northbound stop on Washington Road, which is served by four TigerTransit routes, has jumped from being the 12th most used weekday stop to the fifth busiest. From here, riders can hop on any northbound bus to avoid walking up a steep path.
Tennyson also added that undergraduate transit use from residents at Butler, Yeh, and New College West could be contributing to the increase of rides.
TigerTransit runs six lines around campus and nearby towns. Two routes serve the graduate student residents of the Lakeside Apartments and the Graduate College, respectively, while the Weekend Shopper provides access to groceries and retail shopping on Route 1. Another route runs to Princeton Medical Center, the Forrestal Campus, and the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL).
However, TigerTransit has also been criticized for its limited utility, as its route network operates around the periphery of campus and mostly transports graduate students, faculty, and staff from parking facilities to campus. In September, Tennyson told the ‘Prince,’ “There are no plans for TigerTransit to operate on Elm Drive in the near future.”
TigerTransit previously operated using a fleet of 14 full-size diesel buses and five smaller buses. By implementing the electric buses, 500 metric tons of tailpipe emissions will be removed from the atmosphere annually.
“Our air is cleaner because of this project,” said University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 in an event inaugurating the new buses. However, 500 metric tons represent less than one percent of the carbon emitted by campus operations annually, according to Tennyson.
The all-electric fleet is also relatively unique for a public transit system. According to a University press release, Princeton is the first Ivy League school with exclusively emissions-free vehicles. In the same press release, Tennyson said that the University’s charging station was “one of the largest electric transit vehicle charging facilities in the country.”
According to Tennyson, there are plans to change TigerTransit routes and service patterns to accommodate the new Meadows Neighborhood development across Lake Carnegie in West Windsor Township, which is planned for completion in Spring 2024. These service changes will be announced in early January.
Recent and future changes to the TigerTransit system are part of a broader landscape of environmental efforts on campus — as geothermal energy construction projects are ongoing and the University works towards a goal of carbon neutrality by 2046 — as well as significant campus expansion. Against the backdrop of a rapidly changing campus, students can expect that transportation patterns may also experience shifts away from walking and scootering and towards alternative modes of movement.
TigerTransit users can share feedback on the service with the University through its “Tell us how TigerTransit is doing” feedback form.
Ryan Konarska is an associate Data editor and staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Louisa Gheorghita is a staff News writer and photographer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The University campus is undergoing unprecedented growth and with it, unprecedented construction — a reality that is impossible to forget for anyone attempting to navigate its pathways. Pathway closures are a necessary impact of campus construction as work continues to fulfill the University’s 2026 Capital Plan, which includes the construction of Hobson College, the new Environmental Studies & School of Engineering and Applied Science (ES & SEAS) complex, Frist Health Center, and other campus improvements.
Pathways currently closed on campus include the walkway behind Murray-Dodge Hall, between the Hobson College construction zone and Jones Hall, the passageway that runs from the Center for Jewish Life to Prospect Ave, and the pathway through the parking lot between the Engineering Quad and Von Neumann Hall.
The pathway closure behind Murray-Dodge Hall, new this semester, is particularly impactful to the Murray-Dodge Café, whose typical entrance next to the Princeton University Art Museum site is completely blocked by construction. Potential patrons must now enter through the first floor of Murray-Dodge Hall and navigate to the basement through the internal staircase. The instructions to access the temporary café entrance were posted on Murray-Dodge Café’s Instagram.
“I think it’s kind of inconvenient because that was a path I often took to (a) go to Murray-Dodge and (b) go to Whig Hall,” Michelle Miao ’26 noted.
Miao is a News contributor for The Daily Princetonian.
Pathways will begin reopening as construction projects finish. According to University Spokesperson Jennifer Morrill, pathway closures in the area surrounding Princeton Stadium will be resolved prior to the first home football game of the season, currently scheduled for Sept. 28. More paths around the Art Museum and Frist Health Center will open this fall as exterior construction on both projects is completed.
The facilities construction web page provides students with various resources for remaining up to date with campus construction projects. While it promises to be updated regularly, it does occasionally fail to be updated with the latest closures. Several students cited the seemingly sudden closures as an obstacle to make it on time to classes and other commitments.
“Since I no longer live close to [the path], it’s been less inconvenient, but I would still appreciate having that path open since it’s a quicker way to get to class,” Miao said.
“I think it’s very annoying, because there’s a lot of foot traffic that could go there and [the path is] not [there]. It makes the walk much longer from the dorms to the other part of campus like the E-Quad,” Henry Baquerizo ’26 told the ‘Prince.’
“We recognize that construction impacts the entire community and can be frustrating as [students] navigate campus,” Morrill wrote to the ‘Prince.’ “Facilities works with colleagues across campus to coordinate upcoming work in consideration of the academic calendar. We will continue to inform the surrounding dorms and communicate construction impacts to the campus community.”
The website features a static construction pathways map which highlights construction impacts, closed pathways, suggested bike lanes, and steep slopes. However, other routes not featured on the Facilities website may also be closed, according to the University.
Students who seek more immediate updates can also reference the “campus impacts” layer of the interactive facilities map, which contains frequently updated construction impact information, among other information relevant to pathfinding. In addition to the mapping resources, community members can sign up for construction impact notifications via email or text by using the TigerSafe app, or by texting “Updates” to 67283.
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer and head Podcast editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.There are no fewer than 11 construction projects currently underway on Princeton University campus. All are expected to be completed between the fall of 2023 and spring of 2027 according to the University's construction timeline.
Some of the projects include the development of the Meadows Neighborhood, the expansion of the University Health Services (UHS), and the TIGER and Central Utility buildings, both which are central to the geo-exchange project and the University’s goal of achieving net-zero emissions by 2046.
Those most central on the college campus and to students’ everyday lives include Hobson College, the development of Dillon Gym, the renovation of the Art Museum, the construction of the new building complex for environmental studies and the School of Engineering and Applied Science, and the work on Poe Field. The Daily Princetonian looked at these projects and their projected completion timeline.
Students moved into Yeh College and New College West, the first among the University’s plans for renovation of existing dorms and housing more upperclassmen, in the fall semester of 2022. Hobson College is a continuation of these plans. The construction of the college is set to be complete in 2027, a delay from the University's initial 2026 projection. The complex is located between the University Health Service (UHS) and Elm Drive, on the site of the former First College.
University spokesperson Michael Hotchkiss described some of the features that students can expect from Hobson College in an email sent to The Daily Princetonian. He said, “the college will house 500 students and include a mix of first-year, sophomore and upper-class rooms and suites.”
The college is also set to contain various social spaces. Plans for the residential college are focused on accessibility, inclusion, and collaboration. Hotchkiss added that the “Hobson College construction will also improve site accessibility, providing east-west connections as well as additional accessible connections up campus and through the new facility.”
Some of the sustainability focuses of Hobson College are the use of stormwater bio-retention systems, geo-exchange technology, and native and adaptive vegetation.
In the vicinity of Hobson College, other construction projects may end earlier. The expansion of UHS is set to be completed on winter 2025, which will include an expansion to promote a more holistic view of wellbeing it will be adjacent to the current McCosh building in Eno Hall, while the current McCosh Health Center might be used for student life. Schmidt Hall, a new computer science building on the site of Guyot Hall should be finished by the summer of 2025.
The construction around Dillon Gym is anticipated to be completed by the winter of 2025. The project is an expansion and renovation of the current facilities. Students still have access to parts of the facilities while construction proceeds.
“The Class of 1986 Fitness and Wellness Center project includes an addition that will house new fitness areas and workout studios,” Hotchkiss said.
The project also includes the renovation of the south portion of the A level and the Stephens Fitness Center. Hotchkiss noted that “the renovation will create additional recreation and fitness options.” He added that “recreational use of the pool will be available once again when it re-opens in Spring 2024.”
According to the University website, the overall goal of the expansion and renovation is to provide opportunities for a larger campus community and “[increase] accessibility to most of the building from the pool up to the main gym.”
Hotchkiss described some of the sustainable construction techniques being used on the gym which include: the use of mass timber as a low-carbon alternative to concrete and steel; natural ventilation; and the incorporation of green roofs as stormwater management strategies.
The construction of a new Art Museum building was announced in 2018 and started in the summer of 2021. With construction at a central location on campus, this project is most notable in terms of noise, obstructions, and effect on aesthetics.
The renovation is set to increase gallery exhibition areas by 38 percent and provide visible storage which will allow easier access to the collections. The new Museum will encompass the former Art Museum, Department of Art and Archaeology, and the Marquand Library. According to the plans, it is set to “bring the University community together and serve as a cultural gateway to the Princeton campus for the wider public.”
The building is expected to be complete in 2024 according to the construction timeline, although the Art Museum will not open until the spring of 2025. Regardless, the Princeton community can hope to be able to see the Museum’s expansive collections again within the next two years.
The University’s goal of achieving net-zero emissions by 2046 is a large focus for many of the ongoing construction projects. The work on Poe Field is a crucial part of this goal.
This construction project is focused on the implementation of geo-exchange and stormwater systems. Hotchkiss noted that “1,500 geo-exchange bores [are] planned for central campus as a part of the campus infrastructure conversion,” and the construction on Poe Field includes the installation of nearly 400 of these geo-exchange bores. A further 300 geo-exchange bores have been installed on the Hobson College site and Whitman Lawn area. The geo-exchange system these bores support reduces the campus energy footprint by using the ground as a renewable heat source in winter and heat sink in summer.
Hotchkiss said “Poe Field construction is anticipated to be complete by Fall 2024 and will include the full restoration of Poe Field as a campus recreation and social space.” This is a more ambitious timeline than the University previously projected, initially suggesting the project would take three semesters, or lasting until Spring 2025.
A major project south of Prospect Street, the construction of a new campus village for engineering departments is one of the most ambitious parts of the campus plan. A series of new buildings will host four engineering departments. The complex is set to open in 2025 as well. While the new buildings will open, the transition away from the current E-Quad may take longer: new buildings for the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and other relevant centers and departments are still prospective and have not been started.
In plans, the University has highlighted the community elements of the new complex and integration with the rest of campus.
Hotchkiss addressed a number of the concerns regarding construction raised by the student body.
“Updating residential colleges that are no longer programmatically up to standard will be considered for the next capital plan,” he wrote. “Students will have input into these projects as they evolve.”
The first phase of the 10-year dormitory replacement program was completed over the summer, including — according to Hotchkiss — “the installation of over 1,000 casegood furniture sets and in-suite living room furniture” in nine dormitories within Rockefeller and Mathey College. This furniture has already been deployed in New College West and Yeh College and is set to be included in other residential colleges and upperclassmen housing across campus within the next ten years.
Hotchkiss said that “no new projects are scheduled to begin in the immediate future” but warned students that they may see more effects of the current construction plans. Hotchkiss referenced a recent Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) meeting where Associate Vice President of Capital Projects Dozie Ibeh said that on-campus construction was “ramping up” — noting “Many projects are moving from a stage of demolition and structural construction [...] to exterior construction and interior fitout.” He added that “students may expect to see more subcontractors entering project sites.”
Victoria Davies is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As Princeton’s campus has rapidly transformed, defined by extensive construction and considerable expansion, cross-campus commutes have grown longer, and students have found themselves increasingly short on time. It has become increasingly clear that “passing time,” the existing 10-minute gap between classes, does not work for Princetonians. Imposing significant limitations on everything from course scheduling to in-class engagement, it comprehensively affects the student experience and leaves students increasingly unable to participate in the intellectual moments that define a collegiate experience.
On Sept. 29, the Undergraduate Student Government Academic Committee proposed changes to passing time that, if implemented, would take effect in 2025 and would seek to mitigate the effects of construction and campus sprawl. The University should increase passing time to twenty minutes to respond to increased construction, reduce existing barriers to interdisciplinary education, allow for increased engagement with instructors and peers, and improve in-class learning quality.
Increasing passing time would provide students with new opportunities to engage their professors and TAs. With additional time to move between classes, students can spend more time after class to ask questions, clarify points of uncertainty, and discourse with their instructors. Beyond enriching the quality of in-class learning by mitigating stress-related lack of focus (as when preparing for a sprint across campus at the end of class), it would provide students the opportunity to go above and beyond. Critically, this intimate exchange of ideas, inquiries, and answers, even in that short period, constitutes organic learning that enriches intellectual growth. Passing time, at first look, seems a mere logistical matter, but it possesses the potential to significantly affect those critical day-to-day moments of a Princeton education.
There are far too many things to do at Princeton, and while the University would want us to take advantage of more of them, there is simply not enough time for it all. The last place students should have to worry about this is while rushing desperately from class to class and appointment to appointment. Increasing the time between classes ensures that students will have sufficient time to engage with and enrich the University’s vibrant intellectual environment.
With construction at Princeton dramatically reducing pedestrian mobility and accessibility, expanding passing time is critical to ensuring students can navigate campus without being late to class. The University, currently pursuing its ambitious 2026 Capital Plan, is set to add some 3 million square feet of building space. On track to continue into 2027, with several projects underway concurrently, construction has transformed how students traverse campus. Princetonians have to navigate construction detours, many of which, used by trucks and other construction vehicles, are hardly pedestrian-friendly. While the University released a Campus Map app for alternative wayfinding, the issue of increased travel time remains, and students should not have class time impinged upon because of time-consuming detours.
Since construction is critical to meeting Princeton’s institutional priorities, the University should ensure that scheduling reflects the new reality of the student experience and accommodates the longer detours necessitated by construction. The grand scale of the 2026 Capital Plan, which sets Princeton on a course for the development or use of all of the University’s land from Nassau to south of Lake Carnegie, means students will not merely face an increased number of obstacles but a more sprawling campus to navigate. If 10 minutes is inadequate as it stands, expansion further consigns existing policy to inadequacy.
The need for laboratories and science buildings has increasingly pushed the University’s geographical center eastward across Washington Road. As it stands, the trip from the northern part of campus, East Pyne Hall, to Frick Chemistry Laboratory takes at least 13 minutes. Therefore, even absent construction, crossing campus in the existing 10-minute window is simply infeasible. With a greater number of buildings east of Washington already, constraints on mobility have increased. Insofar as the ES and SEAS building is set to be completed in 2025, it will draw a larger share of the student population further east and down the campus consequently passing on the costs of lengthy commute times. Policy must, therefore, reflect the emerging reality of campus sprawl.
A larger campus presents a considerable — but resolvable — barrier to interdisciplinary education. With the University’s south and eastward expansion over the decades, students face lengthy commutes between classes, particularly BSE concentrators. The distance to the E-Quad is considerable. For students seeking to balance the humanities and sciences, such as AB pre-med students, commute times that potentially impose on class time constitute a considerable challenge.
Therefore, the time increase would eliminate yet another obstacle facing students hesitant about interdisciplinary study and encourage them to pursue a proper liberal arts education. The University has energetically sought to ensure that BSE students receive a proper liberal arts education by emphasizing the humanities. Doubling passing time would be essential to realizing that goal. Insofar as Princeton believes interdisciplinary education facilitates immense individual growth and thoughtful, effective problem-solving, it should not be impeded by a long walk.
The University’s strategic priorities are ever-present. Expansion, construction, encouraging the liberal arts, and fostering organic intellectual engagement sit prominently among them. Construction and the mobility challenges it poses will doubtless endure insofar as they are critical to realizing those goals. The University has indeed faced considerable growing pains, of which increased class-to-class travel times pose a particular — but easily resolvable — challenge. With greater focus on both the sciences and interdisciplinary education and fostering a campus environment well-suited to the modern University, lengthening passing time to 20 minutes enables the realization of the full potential of a Princeton education.
Aidan Gouley is a first-year from Fairfield, Conn. intending to major in Politics. He is a contributing columnist at the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached by email at aidan.gouley@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Princeton’s baseball and softball teams will soon be relocated to the other side of Lake Carnegie due to campus construction.
The new softball stadium is currently set to be complete this spring and will be located in the Meadows Neighborhood in West Windsor. The softball team will practice alongside new graduate housing, as well as other athletic facilities, including a cross-country course, rugby fields, and the Racquet Center opening in the fall.
While the new softball stadium is nearly complete, the University has not yet released official plans for a new baseball stadium. It is likely that the baseball team will also move to the Meadows Neighborhood area, given the available land and existing athletics presence there.
“We have been told it’s going to be right next to the softball field in the same neighborhood,” pitcher Justin Kim ’26 wrote in a statement to The Daily Princetonian.
Both Clarke Field, home of Princeton baseball, and Strubing Field, home of Tiger softball, will be replaced by the new Quantum Institute for Quantum Science and Engineering. The fields are located next to the east-facing side of Jadwin. The institute will soon begin construction adjacent to the Environmental Studies and the School of Engineering and Applied Science facilities. The project is another aspect of the University’s plan to expand the campus and increase class sizes.
According to a statement from University Spokesperson Jennifer Morrill, “the Quantum Institute for Quantum Science and Engineering will be a multidisciplinary facility specifically built for the rigorous needs of quantum science.” It will “include ample lab space for new as well as for existing faculty members, as well as spaces to foster collaboration and cross-pollination.”
The new facility comes from an effort to continue making strides in quantum research, according to Morrill. It is “designed to create a focal point for the new research and educational efforts on campus.”
“The timing to be investing in [the quantum physics] field is excellent given the recent advances and the remarkable opportunities that are just ahead in terms of exciting fundamental science and potential applications,” Dr. Ali Yazdani, co-director of the Princeton Quantum Initiative, told the ‘Prince.’
In December 2023, a breakthrough by Princeton physicists successfully entangled molecules for the first time.
Princeton has always been a leader in the field of quantum physics, and the new Quantum Institute looks to help the University become a place where further breakthroughs can occur. The building will not just house the physics department, but it will also serve as the new home for Princeton’s four main areas of quantum research: Quantum Systems Experiment, Quantum Systems Theory, Quantum Materials Science, and Quantum Computer Science.
The new facilities will come at the cost of Princeton’s baseball and softball fields, forcing each team to the opposite side of Lake Carnegie. While the Clarke and Strubing Fields are within walking distance of the main campus, both teams will soon have to find other ways to get to their practices and games.
Clarke Field has witnessed over 500 Tiger baseball wins in 63 years, while Strubing Field has welcomed Princeton softball since 2019. Both teams have had to move due to campus construction in the past and will have to relocate once again.
Clarke Field was built after the previous baseball field, University Field, was designated for removal due to the construction of the E-Quad in 1965.
“It’s pretty unfortunate that we have to move our field across campus, leaving us even farther away from the rest of campus,” Kim explained.
While the majority of non-conference baseball games are played away from Princeton, Clarke Field hosts a full slate of Ivy League games and also serves as a practice facility. “Clarke Field is more than just a place for us to play; moving the field takes away much of the sentiment connected with it as well,” Kim wrote.
The softball team is moving for the second time in five years after their previous Class of 1895 Field was removed for the construction of Yeh College and New College West.
Strubing Field opened in the fall of 2019 and is a full-turf field with a newer digital scoreboard. While it was an upgrade from the previous smaller dirt field, Strubing Field wasn’t meant to be a long-term replacement for the Class of 1895 Field.
“I know that our new stadium is currently being built. The field [that we] currently have was always supposed to be a temporary field,” infielder Allison Ha ’25 wrote to the ‘Prince.’
Allison Ha is a staff Sports writer for the ‘Prince.’
Both teams will finish out their 2024 seasons at their current fields and begin preparations to move after the season concludes.
Tate Hutchins is an associate Sports editor and contributing News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Behind every Princeton slam dunk is solid footing, powerful momentum, weeks of training, and a committed support staff.
Meet Clif Perry, director of athletics equipment operations and the leader of the support system behind the University’s 38 athletic teams. For almost two decades, Perry has devoted himself to athletic operations, from placing million-dollar orders for Nike gear to laundering uniforms for almost 750 student-athletes on a daily basis.
Outside of Princeton Athletics, Perry has served as president of the nationwide Athletic Equipment Managers Association, which aims to promote and improve the profession. Perry is also active in children’s health initiatives, including the St. Baldrick’s Foundation, for which he dyes and shaves his hair every year to raise money for children’s cancer research.
The Daily Princetonian sat down with Perry last week to discuss his career and his management philosophy.
This interview has been edited for clarity and concision.
The Daily Princetonian: To start off, how would you describe your role on the basketball team as the equipment manager?
Clif Perry: I’ve been here almost 20 years, and my role has changed over the years. When I first started, I was actively involved with all aspects of both the men’s and the women’s basketball teams. Until COVID-19 hit, I was based in Caldwell Fieldhouse and working with all the teams all the time and adding support for football. Now, I’m the primary person for football. I don’t make as many day-to-day decisions for basketball, but I still help oversee the designing of the uniforms and practice gear, things like that.
DP: You mentioned that you work with many different sports, like football and basketball. What was your path to becoming an equipment manager for Princeton?
CP: When I graduated from college, I wanted to be a coach, and I spent the next nine years teaching and coaching in the state of Florida. I missed being in college athletics, so when I found out that there was a national organization called the Athletic Equipment Managers Association, I contacted a guy at Florida Atlantic, and he told me about the membership procedure and the test that you had to take to become certified. And I did all that. So my wife and I took my one-and-a-half year old daughter and moved to Annapolis where I worked at the United States Naval Academy for a year as an equipment room intern. When that ended, I was offered the job here at Princeton, and I accepted.
DP: How would you describe your current responsibilities as equipment manager in relation to your previous roles as a teacher and coach?
CP: In some respects, it’s the same in that I still interact with student-athletes, which I really enjoy. Instead of formal lesson plans, Nike is kind of like my lesson plan. The thing that most people don’t know is that when we order gear from Nike, you have to have it ordered by Halloween for the following school year. So, I don’t know who the new students are going to be. All of our orders start coming in around June, and if we were at a bigger school — one of the Power Five schools — they would come in pre-logoed. Our stuff all comes in blank, so there’s nothing on it, and then we send it out to get “Princeton Basketball” or “Princeton Football” or whatever logoed onto the clothing item. There’s definitely a lot of planning ahead.
DP: That sounds like a lot of work. What’s your relationship with your teams?
CP: When I was based in Caldwell Fieldhouse — so pre-COVID-19 — my relationship with the teams wasn’t very close. I dealt mostly with the coaches. Occasionally, a student-athlete would come by if they needed something. Now that I’ve moved out to football, my office is just off the football locker room. I’m with those guys every day and sometimes more than I’d like to be. [Laughs]
DP: What are some of your favorite memories with the teams?
CP: There’s been a lot of them. I think the biggest thing is when you see the true joy on the athlete’s faces when they win, whether it’s a game or a conference championship, because you know it’s a memory that they’ll have forever. Five years from now at Reunions, they’ll all come back and be like, “Hey, remember this, remember that?” And you’re like, “Oh, yeah!” Those are the ways that you realize you made a difference, because when you’re slogging through the day-to-day, you don’t recognize that. The reward is three, four, five, 10 years down the line when they come back, and they still talk about those kinds of things. That makes you feel appreciated when you might not be in the moment.
DP: For sure. For basketball, March Madness is on the horizon. How are you feeling about their prospects, and how are you preparing for the season?
CP: March Madness is always one of those weird things, because you want the team to do well, advance, and go as far as they can, but you also know that the Ivy League presents a lot of challenges that a lot of other places don’t. The back-to-back for basketball — having a Friday night and a Saturday night game — is something that the other conferences don’t experience unless they’re actually in the conference tournament. The other thing that’s so tough is that the Ivy League usually only gets one team in the tournament. If you don’t win the tournament, then you don’t go to the national tournament. It puts a lot of pressure on the kids. And you, being a student here, you know what it’s like to go through the rigors of a Princeton academic schedule. Then, throw into that 20 hours of practice, games, lifts — those are all things that the people who don’t know, they just don’t know.
It’s all about preparation and getting all the things that they need and having them ready, whether it’s a favorite pair of shoes or making sure that their stuff is washed so that they have it; athletes are superstitious, right? [Laughs] It’s a lot of planning and getting things ready, so that they have everything they need and can worry about making a three-point shot instead of whether or not they have the right undershirt on.
DP: Yeah, it sounds like the athletes have a lot of dedication.
CP: They definitely do. Unless you’ve been here and gone through the academic rigors, you don’t really understand what it’s like, right? Our students are up in the E-Quad, taking electrical engineering and still trying to do a senior thesis. Last year, there were kids at March Madness and they were worried about their senior thesis that was due in three weeks.
DP: In addition to your work at Princeton, you’ve also held leadership roles in the Athletic Equipment Managers Association. Could you speak about your work there?
CP: Like I said, 21 years ago, when I first found out about the Association, it was something that I didn’t know existed. When I got hired here, I was a certified equipment manager and found out about the regional Association district, did work at the district level, and worked my way up and was on the Board of Directors for the organization for 14 or 15 years. The last four, I was the president of the Association, and everybody was on my case to run for reelection. At the time, looking ahead, I realized that the way convention fell and the way that Princeton’s academic calendar fell this year, graduation would have been a week later. I figured that I probably needed to be here for my daughter’s graduation — that was more important than being involved in the Association, so I took a step back and decided that I was going to be here.
DP: That’s wonderful. Outside of the work with the Association, you have also been involved in service-oriented projects, from donations to children’s hospitals to shaving your head for the Saint Baldrick’s Foundation. Can you describe these projects, and where your inspiration comes from?
CP: Saint Baldrick’s is a funny one for me, because I’d never heard of it. A friend of mine from back home in Florida was like, “Hey, I’m shaving my head for this charity, and you should do it too,” and I was like, “Yeah, right.” [Laughs] And it became a game. It was fun, right? So, this weekend, I’ll dye my hair. I’ve dyed my hair for probably the last 15 years, because when people see you with a different hair color — especially older people — they’re like, “Well, geez, why is your hair colored” “I’m going to shave it off” “What are you shaving it off for?” So, it becomes an easy tie-in to be able to talk about the program. So, I do one haircut a year, and this year, it’s on March 9. This is my 17th year of shaving my head, and I raised right at $200,000 in that time.
Children’s cancer is something for me that is just hard because anything that prevents you from being able to be you and do whatever it is that you’re called or led to do — you should be able to experience that. When you’re going to chemo or radiation and walking around with no hair at six, seven, eight, 10 years old, it’s going to be hard. Our younger daughter — I don’t know if it’s the second or third year that I did it — the first thing that she went to after being born was the head shave. Later that year, she got sick. It wasn’t cancer — she’s fine now and everything, but she was in the hospital for two weeks, and I remember seeing those kids and realizing that some of those parents would walk out without a child. And it was like “OK, I can go around with a bald head if it raises money and it’s for a good thing.” So that's why I’ve continued to do it.
DP: That’s a really great mission. Do you have any hair colors that you’re thinking of this year?
CP: Green is usually a staple right around the event because it’s right around Saint Patrick’s Day, and green is the color of money, obviously. But a couple of people have been on my case about doing it orange because it goes better with what we wear every day, so I’m going to do it orange this year to start out.
DP: That sounds so fun. Why is it important for you to incorporate service into Princeton? Whether that’s in athletics, or more generally.
CP: I mean, it is the motto of the University, right? You can’t be here for 20 years and not pick up on it. I think when you get to a certain age, you realize that the things in your life are there for a reason. How hard is it to smile? How hard is it to do one act or three acts of kindness a day? It’s easy to hold the door open for somebody. You know, maybe it makes that person’s day. All it takes is five or six people a day making a difference in somebody else’s life and maybe some of the garbage that goes on in society doesn’t happen, so I’m hopeful that it carries over.
DP:  What do you think is special about Princeton Athletics?
CP: I would say that one of the positive things about having been around here the last 20 years and working in athletics is the success of the department. It’s crazy how much our coaches and our student-athletes are driven to be successful.
We have seven other teams in the league, and we traditionally do better than all of them. It’s not because of admissions letting in the best athletes. It’s because the kids come in, and they’re motivated and driven to be good. The coaches [work with] the kids in bringing out the most of their potential.
Whether you win all the time or lose all the time, the job is the same. It’s just more fun when you win, right? [Laughs]. Then everybody’s in a better mood. I think that the staff that we have down in the Athletic Department is really good. It’s a lot more fun, I think, not only for our kids in our department but also the campus in general when things are successful. When you’re watching March Madness and you know our basketball team is winning the first-round game that they’re not supposed to win — the sense of community on campus is so much better. It doesn’t matter if it’s basketball, field hockey, or lacrosse — we’re successful in a lot of them. I think being surrounded by good staff and good colleagues really makes a difference in the day-to-day. There’s a lot of people. It really takes a whole community to make it work.
Coco Gong is a staff Features writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any corrections requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On behalf of the Municipality of Princeton, consulting firm Nelson\Nygaard held a pop-up event at the Princeton “Dinky” station on Feb. 6 to kickstart the outreach stage of its Princeton Community Transit Plan. The firm was contracted by Princeton to conduct a study to “assess the mobility needs of the Princeton community.”
The study “is meant to look now and in the future at what a transit system that really serves all of Princeton” could be, according to Miranda Adams, one of three transit planners from Nelson\Nygaard at the event. The Feb. 6 event is part of a pop-up series, beginning Feb. 6 and ending Feb. 11.
While her role in the study primarily involves behind-the-scenes analysis in preparation for outreach efforts, Adams told The Daily Princetonian that engaging in these kinds of events is crucial for understanding “what is happening on the ground.”
The Princeton Community Transit Plan was first launched in Fall 2024, following the rise in affordable and market rate housing developments in Princeton in recent years. According to the study’s website, the municipality decided to re-evaluate the current transit system so it could determine whether it was successfully meeting the demand for transportation services in increasingly densely populated communities. It also comes after Princeton received a state grant to purchase two new electric school buses.
Julian Bautista Rojas and Franky Mabalatan, the other two transit planners at the event, explained to the ‘Prince’ that, while having the ability to purchase additional buses is a big win for the town, it is equally important to ensure they are being effectively used.
The event involved tabling near the entrance of the Wawa by Princeton Station from 4:30–6:30 p.m. Adams, Bautista, and Mabalatan distributed flyers and paper copies of the online survey used to collect opinions about transit from Princeton residents. The same day, the team of planners held a similar event from 2–4 p.m. outside the Princeton Public Library.
“I’d say that it’s a necessity to work at the local level, to do work such as this, speaking to people who are experiencing the transit network day to day,” Mabalatan told the ‘Prince.’ “We are transportation planners with a certain level of expertise, but a lot of it is done behind a computer. We really want to be out here to kind of see for ourselves and hear from people who live it everyday.”
“This is an ongoing conversation,” Bautista told the ‘Prince.’ “We’re not done yet, and we have many opportunities for people to participate along the way.”
“We’re going to be summarizing all this feedback, all this input, and going in front of the town council to share what we learned,” he added.
Those interested in following the progress of the project or attending the presentation can find updates on the municipality’s website.
Megan Cameron is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Content Warning: The following article includes mention of student death and suicide.
University Counseling services are available at 609-258-3141, and the Suicide Prevention Lifeline is available 24/7 at 988 or +1 (800) 273-TALK (8255). A Crisis Text Line is also available in the United States; text HOME to 741741. Students can contact residential college staff and the Office of Religious Life for other support and resources.
Editor’s Note: The Middlesex County Medical Examiner’s Office ruled James Li’s death a suicide in April. Li is the sixth undergraduate to die by suicide in the past three years.
First-year James Li ’27 died in the afternoon of Feb. 16 after being struck by the Princeton Dinky shuttle at the Faculty Road crossing.
Vice President for Campus Life W. Rochelle Calhoun wrote in a campus message that “few details are known and the incident is under investigation.”
At approximately 2:15 p.m., a Princeton Junction-bound train “struck and fatally injured” Li, according to Kyalo Mulumba, a senior public information officer for NJ Transit, in an email to The Daily Princetonian.
This is the eighth student death in the past three years. Li was a member of Yeh College and attended Princeton High School.
According to the statement from Mulumba, the train departed from the University at 2:14 p.m. and was scheduled to arrive at Princeton Junction at 2:19 p.m. There were no reported injuries to the “approximately 30 customers or crew on board,” Mulumba added. Ethan Caldwell ’27 was aboard the Dinky when the incident occurred.
“A New Jersey Transit police officer or firefighter came on board and checked to ask if everyone was okay, if anyone had been hurt,” Caldwell told The Daily Princetonian. “He just reiterated that there had been an emergency and that they were going to try to evacuate us from the train, because it could not move.” Caldwell added that the police did not provide further details on the reason for the evacuation.
Caldwell is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
At 3:59 p.m., an email was sent out to members of the University community via TigerAlert that Faculty Road was closed “between Alexander Street and the Elm Drive Circle,” citing police activity. Staff members who typically exit campus at Faculty Road and Alexander Street were directed to the exit at Washington Road.
The campus message shared that resources and support will be available through ​​Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS), the Office of Religious Life, the residential colleges, and the Graduate School. Students wishing to speak with a counselor can call 609-258-3141, CPS Cares Line, which is available 24/7.
The message also noted that CPS will offer drop-in hours for students seeking support at McCosh Health Center on Saturday, Feb. 17 from noon to 2 p.m, and that faculty and staff may contact Carebridge to speak with a licensed professional by calling 800-437-0911.
A gathering for “students who wish to reflect and support one another” will be held on Feb. 17 at 4 p.m. in the residence of Yeh College Head Yair Mintzker, located on the first floor of Mannion Hall. During the event, deans of the Office of Religious Life, counselors from Counseling and Psychological Services, and residential college staff will be available.
This article is breaking and will be updated as more information becomes available.
Christopher Bao is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy announced a “fare holiday” for NJ Transit rail riders from Aug. 26 through Sept. 2. The decision to offer customers a week of free train fares follows a bout of service disruptions throughout the spring and summer in addition to a 15 percent fare increase that went into effect on July 1.
The fare holiday will fall during move-in for returning students, which begins on Aug. 31. Students who arrive from New York, Newark Airport, or Trenton will not have to pay train fares for their travel along the Northeast Corridor and Dinky.
In a statement made on Aug. 15, Gov. Murphy said the gesture aimed to thank customers for their continued “loyalty and patronage” in the face of extensive delays and shutdowns.
Despite the fare relief, some riders worry that the broader issues of increased fares and historically unreliable service remain unaddressed.
“I think it’s a great thing. I think giving more people access to public transit is great,” Dash Pai ’26 told The Daily Princetonian. “I also don’t know if this one-time cutting of fares is going to do much in the long run.”
Pai has used NJ Transit multiple times when moving to and from campus. He also used it often while he worked on campus this summer, experiencing the spike in delays himself.
“One time I was visiting my friends in the city, and I was planning on getting on the 9:30 pm or 10:00 pm train back to Princeton … and it ended up getting delayed for an hour and a half.”
Matthew Zhang ’26 appreciates that the initiative will “help out college students by offering free rides” because “the ride from Newark [Airport] to Princeton can be pretty expensive for a lot of people,” but agrees that the fare holiday “kind of is a band-aid.”
Disruptions resulting from the railroad’s aging fleet and overhead wiring system are more frequent during summer and winter months. Extreme temperatures cause the electrical wires to sag or snap, which can get caught on train cars and result in power outages. These problems have existed for so long that seasoned riders plan around their failure, which often adds hours to daily commutes during rush hours.
This summer, NJ Transit reported an on-time performance (OTP) of 83.2 percent for June, which was their lowest OTP since November 2018. OTP peaked this year in March at 93.3 percent, which remains below their goal OTP of 94.7 percent.
June also saw 656 train cancellations, which was the highest number of cancellations since August 2020. 416 of those cancellations resulted from issues related to Amtrak “equipment, signal, or catenary (overhead electrical wire) failure, track conditions, debris, or planned maintenance.”
Since NJ Transit and Amtrak trains share the section of Amtrak’s Northeast Corridor that runs between New York City and Trenton, officials from both corporations have opened an investigation into the root causes of this summer’s increased delays. The investigations by both organizations were inconclusive.
Despite the shortcomings of NJ Transit service, Gov. Murphy said in his statement that “significant short-term actions” have been taken by NJ Transit and Amtrak to improve service, including “increased equipment inspections on platforms,” which he said led to “a noticeable decrease in infrastructure-related incidents.”
Megan Cameron is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Senate gathered for its fifth meeting of the spring semester on Tuesday, March 19. In the meeting, the recent spring break transportation pilot was discussed, an update on elections was given, and committee chairs provided mid-term reports.
President Avi Attar ’25 began the meeting by praising various recent USG initiatives, including buses to athletic games and a midterms celebration trip to NYC. Looking ahead, he mentioned meetings with the Interclub Council (ICC) and Graduate Interclub Council (GICC), as well as a watch party for women's basketball's upcoming March Madness game in Iowa.
Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) Executive Committee Representative Aishwarya Swamidurai ’26 presented a report on the spring break transportation pilot that added more early morning shuttle trips between Princeton station and Princeton Junction station. The additional shuttle trips were designed to expand connecting service to NJTransit trains to New York, Trenton, and Newark Liberty Airport when the Dinky does not run on early weekend mornings. She called the initiative, which was done in collaboration with U-Councilor Anuj Krishnan ’27 and the Transportation and Parking Services (TPS), a “massive success.”
“TPS informed us that they picked up approximately 65 passengers on Saturday and over 50 on Sunday, and this is just for an early morning service that we didn’t advertise as soon as we anticipated,” Swamidurai said. She added that all buses were either early or on time.
Swamidurai also said the initiative would be extended because TPS has leftover funds that they “allowed [USG] to claim … for the remainder of the year, so people can now expect this service to be happening more regularly.”
She also presented an update on a future mobility forum to be hosted in April in collaboration with USG and Graduate Student Government (GSG) to incentivize a discussion among people impacted by mobility issues, such as athletes in the aftermath of the personal electrical vehicle ban.
Samuel Kligman, Class of 2026 Senator, gave a presentation on the elections working group, which he is on alongside U-Councilor Isabella Shutt ’24, Chief Elections Manager Alex Sorgini ’26, and Parliamentarian Sebastian Mehrzad ’26. He began by pointing out low turnout in the winter 2023 USG elections and spring 2023 Class of 2026 elections, which saw participation rates of 47 percent and 36 percent, respectively. The other elections in the spring of 2023 were uncontested.
Kligman argued that more contested elections would lead to higher turnout and more media coverage, in turn leading to better policies and candidates.
“Our spring goal for the election working group is to increase 2024 election turnout by finally having contested U-Councilor elections,” Kligman said. Specific policies Kligman mentioned included an upcoming U-Councilor info session, reaching out to unsuccessful candidates from previous elections, and increasing communications about election logistics.
Social Committee Chair Enzo Kho ’26, Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Chair Abby Lu ’26, and Academics Chair Vivian Bui ’26, presented for their respective subcommittees.
Kho emphasized the work that the Social Committee has been doing so far to organize events, specifically Lawnparties and Dean’s Date celebrations. He pointed to efforts to improve all students’ experiences with Lawnparties, saying that the committee is “trying to think about expanding on food options, and also accessibility, thinking about sending accommodation requests ahead of time.” Kho added that the committee is planning to add additional smaller events, though he did not specify what types of events.
In her presentation, Lu said the DEI committee is a newer committee and struggles with a lack of institutional memory, but nonetheless thinks that “...something that the DEI committee does really well is supplementing our knowledge of students experiences to fill the blind spots of institutional organizations…“ She also mentioned that the committee is working on Ramadan accommodations for next year.
Bui emphasized student feedback, especially regarding the new final exam pilot, and the importance of bridging the gap between admin and students. Specifically, she mentioned plans to host coffee chats with students and collaborate with the McGraw Center.
“What [the] Academics Committee has been doing is engaging in a dialogue between McGraw Center and administration and students … and see how McGraw can really help with first-year students transition to college, especially in light of the conversation regarding mental health and academics.”
Additionally, all three committee chairs emphasized that they had overlap with various working groups within the USG. Bui, for instance, said that there is an overlap between her work with the international students working group and the Academic Committee in helping international students navigate OPT (Optional Practical Training).
USG meetings are open for all students to attend and are typically held on Sundays from 4 to 5 p.m. in Robertson Hall 016.
Christopher Bao is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.I love spicy food. The fresh spice of jalapeños in homemade pico de gallo, the buzzing heat of cayenne in Hungarian goulash, and the lingering sting of Jamaican jerk seasoning are the flavors of my childhood, and since my youth, my tolerance and appreciation for spice have been steadily growing.
When I moved on campus for the first time this semester, I was surprised by the lack of spice in any of the meal options at the dining halls. They probably cater to a large portion of the student body who may not appreciate the levels of heat I’m used to. I quickly realized that if I wanted spice, I needed to find it myself — and I’m proud to report that through extensive research and investigation, I have developed a list of restaurants with cheap, tasty, and (most importantly) spicy meals that you can swing by in between classes, after a long week of papers and p-sets, or even on dates!
These restaurants will be listed in no particular order because they all represent incredibly varied cuisines and cultures that can’t be compared the same way different ice cream or boba shops can.
But without further ado, here is my list of spicy hits!
Tiger Noodles has a wide range of dishes for all tastes. It’s located at 252 Nassau Street (a bit further down Nassau than Hoagie Haven). If you are or you’re going out with friends who are vegan, vegetarian, gluten-free, or who have other dietary restrictions, this is a good place to try!
In addition to the classic General Tso’s chicken and fried rice, two spicier dishes I would recommend are the Sichuan Wontons in Spicy Sauce ($5.50) and the Sichuan Noodles (Spicy Ground Pork) ($9.00). The wontons are served in a peanut sauce with tons of rich flavor and a delicious pork filling, and they’re great to share! The Sichuan noodles are also divine, based around a silky, bouncy wheat noodle slathered in a spicy sauce that is less peanut-y than the wontons and has a bit more sesame, umami flavor.
Located at 235 Nassau Street, right next to Ficus, Thai Village has a cozy, almost nostalgic environment to it. Their menu choices are truly expansive, and the best thing about them is that you can customize your spice level! The levels range from mild to spicy to extra hot — all of which live up to their labels!
My favorite dishes so far are the Red Curry ($14.95+ depending on protein choice, $10.95 during lunch special until 2 p.m.) and the Curry Fried Rice ($12.95+ depending on protein choice, $7.95 during lunch special until 2 p.m.). The red curry is classically creamy, fresh, and includes succulent chunks of pineapple — which may seem weird at first but actually balance perfectly with the spice of the sauce. The curry fried rice is a bit atypical for fried rice, but the flavor is unbeatable. It’s warm and comforting but also has an incredibly unique spice blend that I honestly could not place. I would gladly go to the mat on this one — seriously, try it.
As I mentioned above, I think the lunch specials are incredibly worth it at Thai Village because they come with a choice of a small salad, soup, or spring roll and are significantly cheaper than their dinner-sized counterparts. I will also say that every time I get takeout from Thai Village, the food lasts me for 2-3 meals, depending on my appetite.
And as a bonus: the Thai Iced Tea ($2.50) is a great cooling drink with a complex flavor, made with specially seasoned Ceylon tea and condensed milk, and the delicate floral creaminess of the drink pairs perfectly with a spicy dish.
Tucked in an alleyway between the Christian Science Reading Room and Lil Thai Pin, Taste of Mexico is one of the hidden gems of Princeton restaurants. It’s situated down a small alleyway, and the vibes inside are impeccable. It has a vibrant family feel and an authentic presence that reminds me of so many Mexican restaurants from my childhood. The dishes here are not as specifically spicy as at other restaurants, but they can be dressed up with sides to customize your desired level of spice.
The best condiment you can ask for is the spicy salsa verde (with cilantro, tomatillo, and jalapeños), which has a ton of fresh, crisp flavor. It adds verve to any dish, but I particularly recommend the Flautas de Pollo ($9.95), which are crispy rolled tortillas filled with juicy, shredded chicken and slathered in fresh crema, lettuce, pico de gallo, and queso fresco. All of the entree platters come with beans and rice, and with the added spice of the salsa verde, everything sings with flavor.
I also highly recommend the lunch specials here, because they provide perfect portions (for me personally) at significantly lower prices during the day. The 2 Tamales ($7.95) are delicious paired with extra jalapeños and salsa verde.
Bonus round, part two: The Horchata Agua Fresca ($2.50), made with rice milk and cinnamon, is a delicious pairing with the spicier dishes. I could enjoy its light texture and subtle flavor any day of the week.
The atmosphere in Mamoun’s, located at 20 Witherspoon Street, is warm, fun, and casual. The restaurant stretches back from the door into a large eating area, with the order counter at the very back. The lacquered wooden tables are enclosed by exposed-brick walls and framed sepia photographs. The crown jewel of Mamoun’s Falafel is, obviously, the Falafel Sandwich ($4.95), which comes packed with lettuce, tomatoes, tahini, and perfectly crispy fried balls of falafel, which are made of ground chickpeas, fava beans, and herbs. The service is quick, and the sandwiches are convenient to take to-go, plus the restaurant is almost as close to campus as you can be.
The crucial thing to ask for at Mamoun’s is their free hot sauce. It’s punchy, incredibly spicy, and gives a kind of dry, smoky heat that no other hot sauce I’ve ever tried has had. It comes in little condiment containers, so you can pour however much as you want on your sandwich. But beware — it’s a lingering burn!
Chennai Chimney, located at 19 Chambers Street, has delicious Indian food — and the best part is, you can customize your level of spice! Like Thai Village, you can choose spicy, medium, or mild for any dish, so you can take out with friends and not have to worry whether everyone has the same spice tolerance. It’s a bit tucked away from most other restaurants, but still very close to campus — worth a little trek back and forth to your dorm if it means hot, fresh, delicious curry. My favorite entree is the Paneer Tikka Masala ($14.95), with tender cubes of soft paneer cheese — which tastes a bit like tofu, but so much better (in my opinion). All of the curries are richly spiced and delicious — go crazy!
Chennai Chimney is on the pricier side, though, so if you’re really craving curry but not craving an empty wallet, I would recommend splitting a Curry Family Pack ($32.99+) with some friends — depending on appetites, it can easily feed 5–7 people!
Food and the act of eating is such a communal and community-building thing, and my hope with this piece is to give you some ideas of where to go with friends to get some refreshing, flavorful spicy food near campus. Whether you go out to Mamoun’s for a quick lunch or sit down at Tiger Noodles for a long meal full of great conversation and great food, I hope you will experience the same level of comfort and happiness that I do every time I taste the warm, spicy flavors of my youth. You don’t have to splurge to get delicious spicy food, especially if you try the lunch specials at Thai Village or Taste of Mexico, or get a big Family Pack at Chennai Chimney with friends!
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Princeton Dinky, the shortest scheduled commuter rail line in the nation, might have its days numbered. NJ Transit recently commenced a year-long study of the Princeton transit system, with an emphasis on the Princeton Branch transit corridor that unites Princeton with Princeton Junction.
The study’s ultimate objective is to examine potential alternatives for the weathered Dinky in accordance with the transit system’s future population demand and certain planned developments, including the expansion of the University’s campus. In addition to these considerations, emergent modes of transportation are constantly changing the way many people imagine travel.
According to NJ Transit, the avenues for alternative transportation currently under consideration include “a roadway with embedded rail that can support rail and rubber-tired transit vehicles; a stand-alone rail corridor with a parallel roadway for rubber-tired tram and/or bus service” and “a roadway with a guideway that could support a rubber-tired tram and buses.”
Another option, also outlined in the NJ Transit study’s plans, extends the possibility of the Dinky ultimately remaining a fixture of Princeton transit: “A no-build option that continues to use the existing Arrow III cars or similar rail vehicle.”
However, this latter possibility seems unlikely to some involved in the decision-making process because of the desire to implement transit technology that is more accessible and of higher quality than the current Dinky.
Chair of the Princeton Transit Advisory Committee Nat Bottigheimer is optimistic about NJ Transit’s push toward updating the mode of transport along the Princeton Branch.
“NJ Transit has made clear that the current Dinky railcars need to be replaced by another type of railcar or transit service. Even if changes are only to the equipment, it can not help but be more contemporary in technology, since the Dinky railcars date back to 1978,” he wrote in an email to The Daily Princetonian.
Regardless of the study’s outcome, the alternative will seek to enhance the quality and frequency of transit along the Princeton Branch.
“Any future service that is more frequent; has more stops; is more accessible by walk and bike; is integrated with University and community transit systems; and better connects to downtown Princeton will be novel and an improvement, whether future transit vehicles have rubber tires, steel wheels, magnetic cushions, or something else,” Bottigheimer wrote.
Moreover, Bottigheimer notes that the University will play a crucial role in determining how successfully the transit system will function along the Princeton Branch and that its assets render it uniquely equipped to “not only meet its own sustainability objectives, but to support the sustainable transportation strategies of its neighbors.”
“If the University organizes future growth along the transitway, a high-frequency transit service that stops at key points will be a critical asset in helping Princeton University meet its greenhouse gas reduction goals; creating a walkable, bike-able, and sustainable island in the center of a car-oriented sea; and creating the kind of environment where strategic partnerships with private sector partners can flourish, because employees may want to live there,” Bottigheimer wrote.
Despite discussions concerning a forthcoming transit system in which the Dinky becomes relegated or removed as the primary mode of transport along the Princeton Branch corridor, groups like “Save the Princeton Dinky” have consistently sought to ensure the long-term preservation of the Dinky. In recent years, the group has organized against efforts to retire the Dinky and have spearheaded Change.org petitions to accrue support for maintaining it in the face of other transit proposals.
For now, the local community must wait in anticipation of the NJ Transit study’s final verdict on the Dinky’s role in the Princeton transit system.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Seated in popular Nassau Street restaurant Jammin’ Crepes on Monday, New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy signed a bill that will provide $15 million in federal relief to struggling small businesses throughout the state.
The bill is part of a larger $100 million COVID-19 relief plan aimed at helping small businesses and nonprofits recover from losses caused by the public health crisis. The other bills include $25 million in aid for arts and cultural venues, $15 million for microbusinesses with fewer than five employees, $35 million for restaurants, and $10 million for child care services, the last of which has not yet been signed into law.
Signing legislation providing $15 million in aid to New Jersey's small businesses. WATCH LIVE: https://t.co/i8UKmihBUx
“Through our actions today, we are ensuring that [small businesses] remain strong, and with them, our communities,” Murphy said at Jammin’ Crepes on Monday.
Applications for aid are not yet open, but the applications and aid will be distributed by the New Jersey Economic Development Authority (NJEDA).
“The process for [applying for the grants] will kick off during the second part of this month,” said NJEDA Chief Executive Officer Tim Sullivan. “This [money] is going to get out the door prudently, judiciously and expeditiously because businesses can’t wait.”
The government’s stated goal in the legislation is “to prevent additional business and nonprofit organization closures, to preserve and create jobs, and to spur economic recovery.”
The bill signed on Monday, NJ A5446, passed in both the senate and the assembly on March 25.
The grants will be allocated from funds to the state from a federal Coronavirus Relief Fund pursuant to the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act.
Jammin’ Crepes, a restaurant that began selling crepes in a West Windsor farmer’s market in 2011 and opened its Princeton storefront in 2014, benefited from previous waves of economic relief.
The business received a $15,000 grant from Phase 3 of the New Jersey Small Business Emergency Assistance Grants. It was not eligible for the first two phases because there were restrictions on business size.
“[The New Jersey government is] very attentive to hearing how businesses are structured,” said Jammin’ Crepes founder Kathy Klockenbrink in an interview with The Daily Princetonian. “One business structure doesn't fit all.”
As opposed to the federal Paycheck Protection Program (PPP), the state does not expect repayment for emergency assistance grants. “There is no round trip on this money,” Murphy said.
“I can’t tell you how much the previous grant helped us out,” Klockenbrink said at Monday’s signing. “We used it constructively for a lot of upgrades. And we are really really appreciative of the state’s efforts, of our community members’ efforts. And truly if it wasn’t for this combined effort, it would have been a bigger challenge to keep our doors open.”
Klockenbrink further emphasized her appreciation for the community and the University in the interview with the ‘Prince.’
“Being there for us, particularly at the very beginning of this pandemic and just coming in and getting their coffee every day ... it’s not lost on us,” she said.
Klockenbrink plans to apply for this additional round of funding, citing the need to constantly adapt during COVID-19. Some of Jammin’ Crepes’ largest costs have been take-out packaging, online updates, and physical partitions.
Knowing Jammin’ Crepes received funding, Murphy’s office reached out to the business to host Monday’s signing.
“We were very happy to be supporters of the next round,” Klockenbrink said.
Murphy expressed appreciation for Princeton’s businesses.
“It is a treat to be able to start the week on one of New Jersey’s quintessential and most historic streets, Nassau Street,” Murphy said. “Nassau Street is the economic heart that beats in downtown Princeton.”
New Jersey Assemblyman Andrew Zwicker (D-16) said at the signing that Jammin’ Crepes is an example of why small businesses are important.
“It is part of the fabric of the community. It is what all small businesses are, which is the very essence of why we want to live in the towns that we live in, why we want to raise our families in the towns we are doing so,” he said.
“Study after study finds that for every dollar you spend on ... small businesses, 70 cents stays in the community,” Zwicker said. “The three owners here are a perfect example of that. The fact that they buy and source their products, their ingredients locally, that they give to nonprofits, that they give back into the community, and they hire locally is really ... why we have to support our small businesses here in New Jersey.”
Apart from the state funding, as part of the Paycheck Protection Program signed into law in March 2020, over 350 Princeton-area small businesses received more than $200 million in federal PPP loans.
Many local businesses also received funds from a second round of CARES Act PPP loans this January.
Throughout the pandemic, small businesses across the country have closed. CNBC reports that 22 percent of small and medium businesses were closed in February compared to levels at the start of the pandemic. In New Jersey, over 30 percent of small and medium businesses were closed by December 2020.
These businesses belong disproportionately to women and owners of color.
Murphy announced on Monday that the NJEDA has approved roughly 55,000 applications equating to approximately $250 million in funding. Sullivan said more than 11,000 minority-owned businesses and 11,000 women-owned businesses have benefited from the state’s funding.
Other local businesses have benefited from economic relief.
Assistant Manager of Olsson’s Fine Foods Andrew Nemeth told the ‘Prince’ that earlier rounds of funding helped the company find its footing again after a rough patch at the beginning of the pandemic.
“It was kind of tough because foot traffic was one of the biggest things around here. We have tons of regulars, for sure, but we weren’t getting any more foot traffic,” Nemeth said. “We had a lot of ground to make up because we generally do a lot of catering with university.”
With funds from New Jersey, they worked creatively to foster an online presence, and they were able to order a handheld register system to take orders at the door.
“We’ve been able to push our online presence a lot more and get in touch with more people in the area who might not see us otherwise,” Nemeth added.
With University students back in town, Olsson’s is also getting a boost.
“Having students back on campus has really made a huge dent in our sandwich sales,” Nemeth said. “We’ve been selling a lot more sandwiches now.”
Though Nemeth is not involved in financial decision-making at Olsson’s, he speculated that the business will seek out additional state aid to help pay for additional kitchen space.
“That is something that we could certainly benefit from,” he said.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.A fire ignited in the brush alongside tracks at Princeton Junction train station Tuesday afternoon caused concern among passengers and disruption to transit on the Northeastern Corridor (NEC). In New Jersey, brush fires peak annually in April. However, amidst moderate drought conditions recorded in recent months, 2023 has seen an uptick in incidents.
According to NJ Transit spokesperson Kyalo Mulumba, on weekdays, 51 trains pass through Princeton Junction daily headed East toward New York City. Princeton Junction is connected to an on-campus University train station by the “Dinky,” a 2.7 mile rail line, and provides members of the Princeton community, including students, access to regional train transit.
Mulumba wrote that the fire resulted in a “slight delay” at the stop for train 3846 on the NEC line to New York Penn Station. Scheduled to pull out of the station at 1:11 p.m., the train instead stopped short of the platform to wait until the fire was extinguished. At least one Princeton student was present at the station at the time.
The train did not depart until around 1:17 p.m. NJ Transit classifies a “delay” as six minutes or more behind schedule. No other trains were late due to the fire.
West Windsor Chief of Fire and Emergency Services, Timothy Lynch, told the ‘Prince’ that three West Windsor Township fire units were dispatched shortly before 1 p.m. Upon arrival, the crews located the fire in a “vegetative area next to the northbound train platform” and extinguished it. Firefighters remained on site until the arrival of NJ Transit Police and a fire investigator from the West Windsor Fire Marshal’s Office. Lynch wrote that the cause of the fire was “not immediately known” but confirmed that it “[did] not appear to be suspicious.”
The West Windsor Township does not have a wildfire protection plan, according to Mercer County’s Multi-Jurisdictional Multi-Hazard Mitigation Action Plan. Wildfire risk in the township is, as of the time of publication, classified as moderate.
Axidi Iglesias ’23 witnessed the incident firsthand. She arrived at the station around 12:55 p.m., planning to catch train 3846 to Newark International Airport for a 4 p.m. flight. It was while waiting on the platform that she first spotted the flames.
“The fire was already burning but it got bigger,” she wrote in a message to The Daily Princetonian.
Iglesias reported that the air was “extremely smokey” with “debris flying around.” She told the ‘Prince’ that after a few minutes, emergency vehicle sirens could be heard from the station. Once present, she confirmed, firefighters had the situation under control quickly.
Iglesias stopped to take photos of the flame, which she sent to the Charter Club GroupMe chat once she was able to board the train.
The fire is not the first incident of its kind. Last month, three brush fires in Middlesex County brought NJ Transit and Amtrak rail services to a standstill just before 5 p.m. Departures resumed at 7 p.m., after several cancellations, delays, and altered routes. At the time, ABC7 reported that the source of the fires were sparks emitted from a freight train, which caused nearby vegetation to catch.
New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection spokesperson Caryn Shinske wrote that there is “no special initiative around train tracks” to mitigate brush fires.

218 wildfires were reported already this month, compared to 91 in the same period last year, according to Shinske.
6,973 acres have burned this month in New Jersey — an increase of over 260 percent from this time last year. Much of this acreage can be attributed to a 3,800-acre wildfire in Ocean County, N.J. The fire started on April 12 and is now 100 percent contained.
Tess Weinreich is an associate News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Ryan Konarska contributed reporting.
Please direct any corrections requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.I have something to admit: I can count on one hand the number of times I’ve been to New York since coming to Princeton in August. And I’d have a finger left over if I did. It’s not because I’m drowning in a pile of problem sets — I’m a Politics major — or because I don’t want to go to New York. It’s because NJ Transit’s price hikes and limited student discounts have made rail fare prices prohibitively expensive for students like me. And Princeton should fix that, in order to help undergraduates burst the Orange Bubble without nervously checking their bank account after the facts.
If you wanted to purchase a round-trip ticket to New York Penn Station from Princeton, it would cost you $40.80 — or $48 if your destination is Newark Liberty International Airport, despite being geographically closer. For one journey, that might not be an insurmountable cost. But, consider that Princeton students might need to fly in order to travel off-campus five times per academic year for breaks alone, and the price quickly becomes $240.
A $240 baseline doesn’t account for other trips students might take to New York City or Philadelphia, which provide invaluable experiences to undergraduates for leisure, educational purposes, or to visit family and friends. Although leaving Princeton’s isolated suburban setting is not enough on its own to pop the bubble, connecting to the broader world outside Princeton and thus gaining an understanding of the practical significance of our studies is a necessary first step to forming off-campus relationships and communities and engaging with real-world issues.
However, for many students on financial aid, the price is simply too much to justify regular non-essential travel to nearby cities. This creates a significant equity issue: Students who can afford to take trips to the city have access to more connections, more relationships, more engagement, and more opportunities as a result. Simultaneously, low-income and middle-class students can’t access those opportunities as much or at all.
When did NJ Transit get this expensive, anyway? After all, it didn’t always cost this much to get to New York: During Reunions last year, a round-trip ticket to Penn Station from Princeton Junction would have cost $32. However, after a recent price hike to keep the agency afloat, that round-trip cost has increased by $4.80. And with three percent annual price increases planned indefinitely, the cost is just going to keep going up — and Princeton students will be able to burst the Orange Bubble less and less.
It doesn’t have to be this way. Several major U.S. cities partner with local universities to make public transit accessible for students. At certain universities in Chicago and Philadelphia, students pay a transportation fee that gives them unlimited access to transit. For a student on full financial aid, of course, that fee can be covered by financial aid grants.
These programs work: At Swarthmore, for example, in the first month of the Philadelphia transportation program, students used public transportation nearly four times per month. Swarthmore students are more connected to and integrated with the city than ever before — allowing them to escape their suburban bubble.
In the model of peer universities and locales, Princeton and New Jersey must work together to make NJ Transit substantially more affordable for students. One possible solution would be to adopt a similar system to those in Chicago or Philadelphia, allowing students unlimited access to NJ Transit funded by a flat fee paid to the school. Crucially, for students on any financial aid, this fee should be subsidized by the University.
This solution would benefit both Princeton students — and the University as a result — and NJ Transit, which would receive a significant source of revenue from the University in exchange for the benefit to students. It’s unlikely, amid the agency’s budget shortfall, that the state would act alone to provide a student discount — so the University must partner with the agency to address both problems.
But this is a long-term solution, and one that is not guaranteed to be successful even if the University commits to lobbying for it. In the short term, and perhaps permanently, Princeton should act unilaterally for the benefit of its students. In the image of the Dining Points program, the University should extend a transit subsidy to undergraduates. By giving students 400 transit “points” — dollars, that is — per year, for example, Princeton would fund travel to and from the airport and allow undergraduates an additional three to four trips to New York without having to pay for tickets.
If the $2.3 million annual price tag for acting unilaterally would be too much, the University could introduce a supplementary fee — one that would be covered by financial aid for any eligible students — to cover that cost. Such a cost should not be a barrier to providing equitable access to public transportation.
By the time I graduate — if price increases follow their current three percent trajectory — round-trip transportation from Princeton to New York will cost at least $44.21. But it could, very easily, cost nothing. It’s past time that Princeton moved to expand access to regional public transit for undergraduates. After all, the University affirms that “commuting alternatives” are an important part of the Sustainability Action Plan, and graduate students already receive a transit subsidy to help lower NJ Transit costs. Why shouldn’t undergraduates receive similar benefits?
So, Princeton, put your money where your mouth is: Act unilaterally and immediately to support undergraduate students, and work with the state legislature in the long term to establish a more comprehensive U-Pass system that will benefit students, the University, and public transit across New Jersey.
Isaac Barsoum is a first-year intended Politics major from Charlotte, N.C. He believes that loving Princeton means finding ways it can become a safer, happier, more inclusive place. His column, “A Princeton for All,” runs every other Thursday. You can read his column here. You can reach him at itbarsoum[at]princeton.edu.
Correction: A previous version of this piece stated that NJ Transit had multiple recent price hikes. In fact, NJ Transit has only raised its prices once in the last decade, in 2024. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.On March 27, the majority of the Class of 2029 opened their Princeton acceptance letters. Pre-frosh are getting ready for Preview, fantasizing about and planning for their upcoming college careers, and familiarizing themselves with Princeton (and hopefully, with the ‘Prince’!).
Here, our first-year Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.
Embrace the awkward
Lily Halbert-Alexander, Assistant Opinion Editor
Freshman orientation is intense, saturated with the natural stress of immersion in an unfamiliar place. Most everyone reaches a point when recounting one’s name, hometown, and prospective major one more time feels unbearable, and hiding away in one’s room feels tempting.
It’s absolutely necessary, and healthy, to take time for yourself. At the same time, when I look back at the many times in the beginning of the school year I swore I would reach out for a meal with someone, I wish I had been more committed to following through.
Nerves were my main obstacle. I worried about running out of questions, gaping silences, and the prospect of being the first person to reach out. These matters now feel trivial; in retrospect, the glorious awkwardness seems to be the bedrock of freshman orientation. Orientation is a unique period of vulnerability, in that we are united by our collective inexperience with Princeton: the entire endeavor depends on getting up each day and figuring out how to live in a way we’ve never done before.
Moments of social uncertainty — in short, a really awkward dinner— are valuable in themselves, regardless of how they work out, because they remind us that the college experience is not about perfection. With each awkward dinner, we get one step closer to finding our people. The awkwardness was never going to be avoided, and I find myself wishing I’d spent less energy trying.
Lily Halbert-Alexander is an assistant Opinion editor and prospective English major from San Francisco. She can be reached at lh1157[at]princeton.edu
To find ‘your’ people, meet all people
By Ava Johnson, Columnist
Incoming frosh, you have likely spent your entire adolescence working super hard.
Most people I know here spent high school pushing themselves to excel academically, while stretching themselves thin across countless extracurriculars. I encourage you to check those priorities at Fitzrandolph Gate. You should try hard academically — but you should try just as hard to get to know as many people as you possibly can in your time at Princeton.
Some of the things you learn at Princeton will stick in your mind for the rest of your life, but some of the people you meet at Princeton will be in your life for the rest of your life. This place is full of incredible and interesting people. Every person I’ve encountered at Princeton has impacted my life in some way — not just my incredible friends, classmates, and peers. From the kind Facilities workers I pass on the way to the bathroom to the nationally known political commentators I’ve taken classes from, this community has meant so much to me. And I know them because I talked to them. Don’t be afraid to invite your professor to lunch, or compliment the cool shoes of the person sitting next to you in lecture. Don’t be afraid to reach out to as many people as possible and get out of your social comfort zone.
It’s still important to work hard — but don’t let that goal get in the way of meeting people. Odds are, the people around you are absolutely amazing.
Ava Johnson is a sophomore columnist and Politics major from Washington, D.C. Her column “The New Nassau” runs every three weeks on Thursdays. You can read all of her columns here. She can be reached by email at aj9432[at]princeton.edu.
Make Princeton your own
By Jorge Reyes, Columnist
After being accepted to Princeton, I used to daydream about studying in all the Gothic and picturesque buildings I had seen online, the places that made me even more excited to attend such a renowned university. I resolved to study someplace new each day in pursuit of the perfect study spot. However, after arriving on campus, I found that I had forgotten all about exploring the places I was once so excited to discover.
Over the summer, I spent much of my time near Yeh and New College West, as these residential colleges host students for the Freshman Scholars Institute — a summer program that allows FGLI students to come to campus before their first year and take classes for credit. Unfortunately, I did not do much exploring.
Once the academic year began, I studied at the same places daily. I spent countless nights studying in Frick Laboratory or Fine Hall. I did not realize that many of the beautiful buildings I pictured myself studying in would be nowhere near the classes I was taking — Firestone Library, Chancellor Green, and the study spaces in Mathey-Rockefeller are nowhere near the Frick Chemistry Laboratory.  Now, as my first year comes to an end, I am trying to revive my old mission. I’m exploring buildings and places I didn’t even know existed — it has added joy and variety to my days and reinvigorated my productivity.
Incoming freshmen, I encourage you to explore all parts of this beautiful campus, including those out of your way. Doing so will cultivate a deeper appreciation of the campus you’ll grow to love and help make the most out of your time at Princeton.
Jorge Reyes is a named opinion columnist for the ‘Prince.’ You can read his column, “No Tiger Left Behind,” every three weeks on Tuesday here. He can be reached at jr7982@princeton.edu
Try something new and regret it
By Lillian Paterson, Contributing Opinion Writer
When I came to Princeton, I had a pretty clear idea of what I wanted out of my college experience: to write about people, read about new things, and visit cool places. Because these are common experiences at Princeton, I initially felt satisfied with my classes, the extracurriculars I joined, and my new life as a Princeton undergraduate.
But after my first semester ended, I reflected on my time at Princeton so far and realized satisfaction isn’t necessarily happiness. Going to Princeton is more than feeling satisfied. It’s about joining and creating new worlds for yourself, venturing outside of your comfort zone, and remaining open to surprises. I sequestered myself into my pre-existing interests my first semester here. It was easy to limit myself to the pursuit of what I knew I was already interested in. But it’s always been hard for me to endure the anxiety that comes with unfamiliar waters.
At the beginning of my freshman year, I talked to a member of the Ultimate Frisbee Team at the club fair. It was great: I got excited about a sport I never thought I’d be interested in. I thought about joining for a couple days but never answered a text I’d received from an existing member. I regret that. Even if it didn’t stick, even if I had hated it, the experience of knowing and trying is worthwhile, it’s what Princeton’s all about.
Lillian Paterson is a first year prospective English major from Silver Spring, MD. She can be reached at lp3095@princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
I believe preservation of capital and significant liquidity should be Princeton’s guiding principle. Most importantly, there should be greater light shone on the endowment and how it is invested.There are Firestone loyalists who, year-round, prefer the six-level behemoth that serves as the University library system’s headquarters. However, when exam season comes, hordes of Princetonians overtake the stacks. Everyone wants to “lock-in” on their work, and popular study spaces may often be occupied by the time you arrive. Luckily, campus is full of other places where you can get your work done without having to battle over the last cubicle. Here are five spots where you can finish those midterm papers and p-sets.
The lounge on the A level of the neuroscience building is a great spot down-campus to study peacefully. This is near the other STEM buildings, such as Frick Laboratory, McDonnell Hall, and Jadwin Hall, which allows for convenient travel if you want to do some studying in between classes or meetings. The lower levels of the neuroscience building do not usually experience heavy foot traffic, so it is more geared towards students who prefer silence but are not particularly bothered by occasional chatter. The tables are smaller, making the space more suited for students who carry around fewer materials for studying and doing work.
Yeh and NCW have the only dining hall on campus where the entire seating area is open to all, even during meal times, regardless of meal plan status. This space is versatile because, while it can get crowded during peak hours, there is a relatively quiet atmosphere in the early morning and after dinner. If you enjoy the bustle of people, there will always be chatter during mealtimes. If you prefer a quiet space, going before breakfast or after dinner will allow you to have a large space with minimal distractions. For students with several screens or books, the abundance of long tables enables you to spread them out. There are plenty of wide-spanning glass panes for those who like natural light and a bit of people watching as they work.
Unlike Firestone, this library will never be at capacity, being a largely-overlooked residential college library. While the previous two study spots have plenty of light, Whitman library offers no windows and rests behind three sets of heavy brown doors. Because of this, the only way to know the time is by checking your mobile device or laptop. However, there are minimal distractions in the quiet atmosphere. Despite the lack of natural lighting, the desk lights allow you to customize how much light you want to shine upon you. If you want to hide away for a couple of hours without being found, this is a great place to go to. If you do need a study break and a snack, the Whitman dining hall is only a courtyard away.
Located in front of Frist Center, the School of Architecture is an unassuming building that is a hidden gem with its central location on campus and many study spaces. This space is best after classes have ended. Whether you want lively chatter or a quiet zone, this place has it all. The lounge offers natural light, while some of the classrooms do not do so quite as much. The location offers easy access to food and snacks, with late meal nearby in Frist Center. You don’t need to be an architecture student to enjoy the building’s amenities and all its nooks and crannies, where you can get those assignments completed.
As the home of the Writing Center, New South provides a convenient location for those who want to work on their paper, inspired by the ideas generated during an appointment at the Writing Center. For those who prefer an isolated spot, this is the place. There are two lounges with an assortment of different chairs and couches for both working and power naps. Very few students use this space, which will provide a high degree of privacy. There is a classroom near the lounge, which may be in use during the daytime. However, it never gets too loud and remains a great place for those who enjoy a quieter setting.
Midterms are a busy time, but finding a new study spot may both be an adventure and an opportunity to discover a new productive work space. Check out some of these campus study spots if you are looking for a break from Firestone!
Donaji Mendieta-Silva (she/they) is a member of the Class of 2026 and is a contributing writer for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ They can be reached at dm4466@princeton.edu or on Instagram @donaji_ms.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Following trends of over-enrollment in introductory and popular courses, several courses are adjusting their locations or offering multiple sections for smaller classes. While accommodations can allow courses to preserve seminar-style learning in small classes, they may also lead professors to alter their traditional teaching methods in some cases.
Enrollment trends followed those of last semester, where many introductory courses and popular classes in creative writing were met with high demand for a limited number of seats.
CHM201: General Chemistry I, an introductory course, was formerly taught in a lecture hall in Frick Chemistry Laboratory. The hall includes a lab behind the blackboard wall, where demonstrators can easily store materials for live demonstrations of course concepts. Now, the course has been moved to McCosh 50, where live demonstrations can no longer be held.
Michael Hecht, a professor of CHM201, told The Daily Princetonian, “Now, I do no demonstrations. I show videos on the screen.”
Hecht noted that this lecture hall location change is not conducive to his instruction: “This issue is that when I teach chemistry — particularly an intro chemistry course — the quality of teaching is not just telling people but showing people.”
In response to the change in CHM201 lecture halls, University spokesperson Ahmad Rizvi wrote to the ‘Prince:’ “McCosh 50 was the best option at the time classrooms had to be assigned, and the assignment was made in consultation with the department.”
Meanwhile, courses in creative writing have held onto their small class sizes by offering multiple sections of the same courses. Data collected by The Daily Princetonian shows that the creative writing program consistently has the most seats filled across the department, filling 95.3 percent of its seats this semester.
Professor Yiyun Li, Director of the Program in Creative Writing, noted that the small class sizes are integral to the experience of creative writing courses.
“It’s an intimate subject,” she said. “There are not many lectures. It’s more about students reading each other’s work, workshopping.”
In LCA101: Introduction to Art Making, students engage in two-week units across five different fields with different professors. This hands-on experience is one that Professors Stacy Wolf and Tess James say is only possible with a smaller group of students.
“That’s what’s important about it: That the students are making art — not sitting passively and learning about art, but they're actually doing it,” Wolf said. “It's hard to go above 35 [students] in the class and have an excellent experience, which we insist on.”
Professor AnneMarie Perl, who teaches ART100: An Introduction to the History of Art: Meanings in the Visual Arts, similarly described how the nature of her course in Art History poses constraints on class size. Given the ongoing construction of the Princeton University Art Museum (PUAM), in order to examine objects firsthand, classes must go to special collections or the off-site location of PUAM.
"Those rooms have caps, and we had to schedule those precepts far in advance,” said Perl.
Many students use TigerSnatch, a student-created app alert system, for classes that are in high demand. Tigersnatch allows students to receive email and text notifications when a spot opens in a full course. Courses with the most subscriptions on this app included LCA101: Introduction to Art Making, REL100: Religion and the Public Conversation, VIS213: Digital Photography, and a number of creative writing courses.
“I acknowledge [students’] frustration that there were so many people on the waiting list,” said Professor Jenny Wiley Legath, who teaches REL100. “I had 79 students who took the time to fill out the waiting list last spring. So that doesn't even count the incoming freshmen.”
Another popular course, according to TigerSnatch subscription data, is PSY254: Developmental Psychology. Professor Casey Lew-Williams estimated that about 80 to 90 students were added to the course waitlist and that, on occasion, students will receive a permission enrollment number when new spots become available.
Computer Science (COS), School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA), and Economics (ECO) are consistently the most declared concentrations every spring. Though SPI298, a gateway course into the major, saw an increase in demand, enrollment in other SPIA and COS courses were down this semester, while economics saw an increase in seats filled. The enrollment levels of all three departments were similar to the 75 percent overall course enrollment rate across the University, including writing seminars.
As class sizes have fluctuated within the past few years, course enrollment and the demand for classes in different departments continues to shift.
Isa Yip is a head News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Thomas Catalano is a contributing News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Senior News Writer Charlie Roth contributed reporting for this article.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.A flurry of Trump administration executive orders and memos have paused, blocked, and then unblocked various streams of federal research funding since taking office, leaving scientists confused about their funding.
In his Jan. 28 email to the campus community, University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 acknowledged the confusion surrounding funding, writing that “you can expect to receive guidance from the Office of the Dean for Research, which is coordinating University-wide efforts.” At the time of publication, the Office of the Dean for Research’s most recent internal announcement is a memo sent to all principal investigators (PI) or co-investigators (co-PI) on federally-sponsored awards and proposals at Princeton. This Jan. 30 memo asked researchers to forward any stop-work orders they may receive and provides a new website page and an email for more information or questions.
Subsequent NIH funding remains in limbo following Trump’s Jan. 27 memo. In the 2024 fiscal year, the NIH awarded more than $37 billion to institutions across all U.S. states and over $265 million in foreign awards. Between Oct. 1, 2023 and Sept. 30, 2024, Princeton was awarded over $58 million, the least in the Ivy League, which received over three billion dollars total during the 2024 fiscal year. The NIH is a part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, supporting biomedical and behavioral research.
Princeton’s Office of Research and Project Administration links a Science article addressing confusion about NIH policies in their announcement, which references acting director of the NIH Matthew Memoli’s Jan. 27 memo. Memoli wrote that he understands “confusion on the scope of the pause” and provided additional clarifications, including that communication begun before the inauguration may continue so long as “it does not involve public release of information.”
Princeton, like Brown, Dartmouth, Penn, and Yale, was given NIH grants in 2024 as one institution. Meanwhile, the other Ivies received awards split among their respective schools, differentiating between health or medical funding and general University departments. Across all Ivies, Princeton received the least funding and is the only Ivy that does not have an associated medical school.
Princeton received fewer awards in the past two fiscal years of 2023 and 2024 than in every year since 2011 and less funding in 2024 than in any year since 2005, when Princeton also received $37.7 million from the NIH. The total funding and number of awards received by Princeton have remained relatively consistent.
Over the past five years, a majority of awards have gone towards research project grants. In 2024, this category accounted for 73 awards, totaling over $26 million in funding. The second-highest number of awards each year went to individual training, despite a consistently low amount of funding being awarded.
Biochemistry received the most funding at Princeton over the past five fiscal years, splitting around $18 million across 40 awards on average. Other science departments, including the chemistry and neuroscience departments, also received significant funding from the NIH.
In 2022 and 2023, the NSF awarded Princeton around $70 million each year. NSF funding accounts for around 32 percent of Princeton’s federally-funded research and development expenditures.
As of yesterday, the NSF Award Cash Management Service has been restored, allowing researchers to access their funding. The NSF stated all grantees must comply with executive orders, especially those surrounding diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility (DEIA) principles.
Andrew Bosworth is the Research Editor for the ‘Prince.’
Hellen Luo is an assistant Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.

The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Amid a flurry of new construction on campus, the Princeton Birding Society (PBS) is working with several University offices to ensure that both new and existing buildings have bird-safe glass. At Princeton, about 136 birds die per year, according to PBS member Joseph Uglialoro ’27.
“We have a lot of collisions happening when migratory birds are first arriving on the Princeton campus,” he said.
Uglialoro is a staff Sports writer for The Daily Princetonian.
With funding from the Council on Science and Technology (CST) and the Office of Sustainability within Princeton Facilities, PBS identified the Frick Chemistry Laboratory, the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment, the School of Architecture building, and Yeh and New College West residential colleges as high-risk areas for birds. Plans are underway to add bird-safe film to these buildings within the next few years.
In an interview with the ‘Prince,’ Professor of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology and leader of the Princeton Better for Birds Project (PBBP) Mary Stoddard explained that the bird-safe film contains “a two-inch by two-inch grid” design, which helps birds see that the glass is solid.
The grid “is actually extremely effective, because birds no longer see it as a continuous thing that they can fly through,” she continued.
“What’s so nice about these dots is that they don’t affect, in a negative way, the humans’ experience. You can still have your window,” she added.
PBBP has also worked with the Office of Capital Planning to ensure that all new construction on campus has bird-safe glass. Assistant Director of Sustainability Ijeoma Nwagwu told the ‘Prince’ that she is looking forward to the new glass.
“The policy move has happened, meaning this is now incorporated into the design standard manual,” she said.
According to Nwagwu, the PBBP’s partnerships with so many campus entities was an extremely fateful encounter.
“I was at a meeting and sharing about the monitoring, and then I was sitting right next to the Executive Director for the Council [on Science and Technology],” she said. “We got talking and found that we were all on different sides of the same project. We started to coordinate together and have been on it since.”
Stoddard explained that while the bird population has decreased by three billion in the past 50 years, it is essential to protect them because of their role in the ecosystem.
“Hummingbirds pollinate wildflowers. Wildflowers provide nectar reward, so the hummingbirds get the nectar, and the hummingbirds are providing the pollination service,” she said.
Stoddard also explained that birds play a role in indicating climate change.
“If the flowers are blooming in a way that’s out of sync with the hummingbirds, the flowers will be in bad shape, and the hummingbirds will be in bad shape — both parties will suffer.”
PBS was founded by Claire Wayner ’22 and Joseph Kawalec ’21 in 2018 to address avian concerns on campus. They began monitoring campus for bird collisions, specifically at the Prospect Garden Room, a dining room in Prospect House that has glass walls.
With support from Stoddard, Wayner received funding to launch PBBP and continue their collision-monitoring efforts. Bird-safe film was added to the Garden Room in Spring 2022.
Since the application of the bird-safe film, there have been no reported collisions with the Prospect Garden Room.
“It’s exciting to see all these groups come together,” Assistant Director of CST Craig Marshall told the ‘Prince’ in an interview. “It’s Cassie [Stoddard] and the undergraduates on the Princeton Birding Society that are really getting people to care about this work,” he added.
“Getting this bird-safe glass up is going to be so huge, and I’m so excited to see that, and excited to see the decrease in collisions that we’re expecting to see,” Uglialoro told the ‘Prince.’
“I’m also just excited mostly how this project is going to influence the people on campus and hopefully create a campus that’s more conscious of birds, more conscious of sustainability, and that’s willing to come together and see just how cool birds can be,” he added.
“This matters. This matters to faculty. This matters to our community — and the undergrads were successful,” Stoddard said.
“Birds really speak to our inner interest in connecting with the natural world,” she added. “I’ve been so encouraged and excited by the energy of students on this campus, the passion I’ve seen among birders, but also people who may not consider themselves birders.”
“We know we’re part of the problem, but I think we can be part of the solution here too.”
Luke Grippo is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.When I first came to Princeton, I was excited to immerse myself in the theater scene on campus. However, I quickly found that Princeton’s theater program, operating in the Lewis Center for the Arts (LCA), differed greatly from the professional theater community I had experienced in my hometown of Jacksonville, Fla. Now, having spent over a year at Princeton as both an actor, teaching artist, and director, I feel more ready to voice my views on how the LCA’s casting works as an educational tool. In order to streamline the Try On casting process while preserving its inclusivity, structural changes are needed.
Casting, on a national level, has traditionally favored whiteness, able-bodiedness, and conventional attractiveness. This presents a challenge to contemporary theater educators in that their efforts may unintentionally reinforce exclusionary norms rather than provide a stimulating, instructional environment. To address these risks, the LCA mandates the “Try On Theater” audition process, replacing traditional auditions with pedagogically-driven, collaborative workshops open to students of all experience levels. This approach offers a commendable benefit: the flexibility of the program levels the playing field for actors with less experience in traditional audition practices, making theater more accessible.
While this flexibility creates space for innovation, it also inhibits LCA project directors’ ability to fit actors to their ideal roles and ensure actors commit to productions they find artistically sustainable. To address these concerns, the Try On Theater process should incorporate aspects of the traditional audition process like an additional “callback” session that incorporates material that will be performed during the LCA season. The LCA needs to further promote its supplemental audition workshops to students who lack a professional theater background so they may learn the “traditional” audition skills necessary, in order to achieve its pedagogical mission and prepare students to succeed outside of Princeton.
The goals of Try On are undeniably admirable. Its main aim is to dismantle the processes that often give an edge to those who are familiar with audition norms, increasing the theater programs accessibility and visibility on-campus. Furthermore, given that Try On makes casting decisions based on mutual director and actor interest rather than the more subjective notion of perceived “ability,” Try On’s relaxation of the audition process enables a broader range of participants to engage. Yet, the Try On process doesn’t always serve the needs of directors in the auditioning process, let alone the actors themselves.
The workshop structure of Try On, which casts multiple shows simultaneously, limits directors' ability to fully assess an actor’s fit for specific material. In traditional auditions, actors perform prepared pieces tailored to their strengths, allowing casting teams to provide direction or request alternative material. However, the demands of a Princeton student’s schedule and Try On’s collaborative format mean directors see less individualized work from auditionees. While this setup reflects the teamwork inherent in theater and allows directors to observe important interpersonal dynamics, it can hinder the identification of actors who authentically embody the world of a production.
It would benefit actors to see more of the shows they are auditioning for as well. In a “typical” audition process that isn’t casting new work, auditionees have the opportunity to read the script before they even audition. Since LCA seasons typically feature student written work, actors do not always know what roles they may be committing to. In the context of a Princeton student’s never-ending schedule, missteps such as these can quickly create a significant drain on the time and the well-being of the people involved in the production. While Try On, moving forward, is going to make scripts and music available to read and listen to during the audition, I believe more can be done to support actors as well as directors.
For example, material from the shows that will be performed should be consistently incorporated into Try On workshops. In any given Try On session, project leaders determine if original material is utilized, not LCA policy. There are real consequence to this lack of formality: when directors do not see actors perform material from the actual show, they may feel pressured to draw on their knowledge of auditionees’ past work, privileging already “in” groups and inadvertently reintroducing biases, with directors choosing actors based on a “type” or relationship, rather than pure ability. And when actors don’t perform material from the show for the audition, they risk dedicating a significant amount of time and energy to a production that they may not find compelling.
The solution to these challenges could be taking one page back out of traditional theater’s book and re-integrating callbacks. Unlike harsher professional callbacks, callbacks could extend offers based on mutual director-actor interest, rather than perceived auditionee ability. Directors would confirm actors’ interest in a production through having them read from the script or discuss how the material is artistically interesting. By adding this informal, but more intimate second round of auditions, directors could gain a clearer sense of how actors handle productions’ demands and actors would be empowered to commit to projects that genuinely excite them
Aside from the specific needs of actors and directors, Try On does not fully equip them for the reality of competitive and traditional professional theater auditions. Unspoken industry expectations, while perhaps unfair and increasingly less common, will continue to be a barrier to entry for students without pre-college theatrical experience if Try On doesn’t prepare them adequately.
To build these skills, Try On should mandate its existing audition etiquette workshops for actors cast in LCA productions to familiarize them with industry expectations, fostering peer support by allowing seasoned actors to guide newcomers. Such initiatives would maintain the collaborative spirit of Try On and ensure that inclusivity does not come at the expense of professional readiness.
Try On theater admirably tries to address inclusivity. But in order to actually achieve it, it needs to adapt again. A hybrid approach — maintaining accessibility while adding structure — could resolve these issues, ensuring that all artists receive both opportunity and adequate preparation to successfully pursue the projects, both in and out of Princeton, that they are best suited for.
Christie Davis is a sophomore at Princeton, intending to major in Economics through the Political Economy Program. She can be found at Theatre Intime and reached at cd6404@princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.On a particularly sweltering day this May, I was sitting on the back terrace of my eating club, sweating in all the wrong places and nursing an iced coffee when I got a shocking, yet thrilling email: I had been granted a large sum from the Lewis Center for the Arts to realize an independent performance art project over the summer.
I was in disbelief, in part, because I don’t think there is ever a time when being granted an award does not feel surprising. The other part of my surprise came because my proposal was strange, included descriptions of mostly nude bodies, and fell under a type of experimental performance art that I wouldn’t typically associate with Princeton’s brand.
But here they were, saying: go for it.
It may seem trivial to many Princeton students, since receiving a grant is not in itself an infrequent thing at a university that seems to have more money than it knows what to do with. But, when it comes to arts funding, receiving a grant is a big deal, especially for a single-person. It can change the game with something so subjective and at times risky.
In the months since receiving the grant, I have come to see that it has less to do with the money itself, and more to do with what the money represents: conviction and belief in you as an artist.
It takes on a different form than the “believing in you” that your parents do, if you’re lucky enough to have that (although, that is great too). This form of belief is not a sudden, emotionally-driven decision from someone who knows you well or holistically, but rather a kind of informal contract that is born from reading a confident proposal. This grant is an unemotional and cultivated form of belief — one that has a profound impact on a 22-year-old artist.
Sure, the money alleviates the anxiety and burden that come from the material cost of working in visual and performing arts; it allows you to explore new angles, interact with new objects, spaces, people, etc. But this money — in its institutional form — has ultimately allowed me to enter the intimidating “real world” and assert myself as a practicing artist who has something to say.
It’s not on school grounds. It’s not for a class. It’s for myself and the world.
When I employ the term “contract” as a way of describing the nature of this belief, I mean there is an implicit relationship between two parties. In the context of a grant, these two parties are typically the artist and the funding institution. But I have discovered that this contract is actually one with myself more than it is with any external party or institution. It is far more difficult to discuss “the terms of the agreement” between me, myself, and I — i.e. the manner in which I speak to myself and negotiate with the ego that so often rears its ugly head during the individual practice of one’s art. How do I know that what I have to say is important? How can I trust that anyone will ever want to look at anything I create? How do I know that I’m not wasting my time?
Applying for, and then being awarded, this grant was a way of temporarily putting my blinders on and convincing myself that I am not wasting my time but instead using it. So this grant is a self-enacted bind — but the good kind. I put myself into a bind as I have vowed to myself and others that I will complete a project. The only way out of that bind is going through with it. This makes practicing art sound highly sadistic, but art is a deeply twisty, confusing practice that sometimes needs self-imposed restraints in order to be productive. Isn’t that what a contract is? Imposed constraint in order to produce something new as a result of human’s inability to trust and control themselves, as well as others?
All of that said, it hardly feels fair to elaborate on the constraints of a “contract” when, ultimately, the highlight of my summer has been the utter creative excitement and freedom — not constraint — that I have felt everyday. I have been working in London as an editorial assistant at a contemporary art magazine during the day, but by night I am an unleashed creative animal who ideates and plots for her performance-installation in August. I have always been someone whose mind runs wild just as I fall asleep, so many of my nights consist of high productivity during this liminal pre-REM-cycle sleep phase, followed by the need to turn the lights back on, so as to record what the uninhibited sleeping mind has composed.
The culmination of this somewhat-manic process and Lewis Center for the Arts grant is titled “RE-MAKING,” and will take place on Aug. 14 in Brooklyn, in a large, empty garage space in Red Hook.
“RE-MAKING” is a multi-media installation performance that seeks to materially explore the processes through which humans form their subjectivity in the presence of others. The performative aspect of the piece will consist of the artist, myself, slowly deconstructing a clay sculpture made to resemble me, using a hammer and a basin of water. The installation component involves the use of six polaroid cameras lining the delineated portion of space occupied by the artist.
In order to materially simulate and capture the act of “witnessing” involved in subject formation, the audience will be asked to move freely about the space and click the buttons of the polaroids throughout the duration of the exhibition. The idea is that, by the end of the performance, the ground will be littered with photographic representations of being-seen-through-another’s-eyes during a hyper-real and embodied interpretation of “forming the self” — or in this case, an attempt to de-form in order to re-form.
I am excited, terrified, and extremely grateful to have been given the support to realize this project — to be in contract with both myself as an artist and the institution that decided to believe in my work.
Bella Butler is a writer and visual artist from Brooklyn, N.Y., and majors in German at Princeton. She can be reached at bb6370[at]princeton.edu.
With spring here, Marley Hartnett-Cody, a contributing writer for The Prospect, explores the campus’s best outdoor study spots.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Associate Editor for The Prospect Gavin McLoughlin and Staff Writer for The Prospect Annika Plunkett take us inside the hidden basement bakery fueling Princeton’s dining halls with over 6,000 desserts a day.On Dec. 19, 2023, the Lewis Center for the Arts (LCA) announced the five recipients of the Mary Mackall Gwinn Hodder Fellowship for the 2024–2025 academic year. Each year, the Hodder Fellowship grants an opportunity for artists and musical innovators to be supported by Princeton University in their creative endeavors. The fellows are typically comprised of visual or performance artists, authors, musicians, or other humanities intellectuals. Notable alumni include the novelist Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie and the poet Natalie Diaz, among many others.
This year, the five recipients of the fellowship are percussionist Britton-René Collins, sculpture installation artist Abigail DeVille, artist and performer Ayesha Jordan, poet and author Suji Kwock Kim, and choreographer and dancer Nami Yamamoto.
After being asked about the fellowship’s meaning to her, Yamamoto wrote in an email to The Daily Princetonian that “I am very humbled and honored to receive the fellowship. I would like to grow as an artist and extend my possibility as much as possible throughout this opportunity.”
The fellowship began in 1944 after esteemed professor and writer Mary MacKall Gwinn Hodder left her estate to aspiring and rising creatives. Since then, it has enabled countless talented individuals to explore their creative outlets and allowed for unhindered time to complete and execute new research and work. Hodder’s intent for the fellowship is unique as she believed in providing grants without rigid requirements from a specific academic department, giving winners the flexibility to pursue their own projects.
The Hodder Fellowship is distinct in its ability to garner a wide range of talent and scholarship that is the product of a diverse array of artistic endeavors. For example, Collins will "conduct research and commission new works by underrepresented composers as part of her 10-month appointment, ‘Sphygmology — Cultural Exchange for Solo Percussion,’ at the Lewis Center for the Arts, which will culminate with her debut performance installation, ‘Sphygmology,’ centered on desegregating Western Classical Music spaces through utilizing percussion as a medium for celebrating Black identity," according to her website biography. With her work, Collins will blend her passion for instrumental music with her desire to spark social change in arts communities.
Each fellow’s project is unique and inventive, and many are leveraging the opportunity to advance and execute existing projects. For instance, according to the press release from the LCA, DeVille plans to publish a book that focuses on community-based historiography and geographical site-based analyses. Jordan plans to continue to develop her project, “Shasta Geaux Pop presents: Shasta Greaux Crops," which aims to reflect and take inspiration from seasonal rhythms and support the process of “integrating eco-performance frameworks and interspecies collaborations.” Fellow Suji Kwock Kim plans to complete her larger work entitled “Disorient.” The LCA also wrote that Yamamoto “… will gather historical information and collect personal stories especially about the Japanese occupation of Manchuria between 1931 and 1945 while practicing, improvising, and exploring movement in the studio.”
“I look forward to getting to know other artists as well,” Yamamoto added. “I am eager to make my world bigger and I will be asking a lot of questions and help throughout my time. I hope that this opportunity opens and leads into a beginning of new relationships to me.”
Christopher Nunez is a staff writer for The Prospect from Point Pleasant, N.J. He can be reached at christophern[at]princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
With spring here, Marley Hartnett-Cody, a contributing writer for The Prospect, explores the campus’s best outdoor study spots.
Associate Editor for The Prospect Gavin McLoughlin and Staff Writer for The Prospect Annika Plunkett take us inside the hidden basement bakery fueling Princeton’s dining halls with over 6,000 desserts a day.
Staff Writer for The Prospect Amanda Hugas analyzes campus fashion through the lens of backpacks, bags, and totes.While Saturday mornings may be a quiet time around most of Princeton’s campus, the Lewis Center of the Arts is bustling with activity — and performers’ instruments. Every Saturday, buses congregate in front of the arts complex, dropping off Trenton middle and high school students for a morning of performances.
The weekly program, Saturday Morning Arts (SMArts), is a part of a larger organization called Trenton Arts at Princeton (TAP), a collaboration between the Department of Music, Lewis Center for the Arts, and Pace Center for Civic Engagement. SMArts, one of TAP’s most notable programs, brings together Princetonians and Trenton students through a shared love of the arts. On rehearsal days, the middle and high school students arrive in the morning, where they are provided with a quick breakfast to fuel hours of rehearsals. From then until the early afternoon, the students divide into one of four categories: dance, orchestra, choir, or theater. Princeton students involved in TAP assist in teaching the students and guiding their rehearsals.
Each week, a Princeton performance group also provides a demonstration. Previous performers have included the a cappella group the Nassoons, the chamber music group Opus, and the dance group eXpressions.
“I especially enjoy seeing the Trenton students interact because really special relationships are being built with the private teachers. Sometimes, I'll have students there for four more years, and it becomes really special,” Princeton alum Lou Chen ’19, the current coordinator of TAP and director of the group’s orchestra, told the ‘Prince.’
As a sophomore, Chen founded the Trenton Youth Orchestra with Joseph Pucciatti, who directed the Trenton Central High School orchestra and bridged a connection between the high school and Princeton. The program began as a fledgling organization stationed in a small house in Trenton for at-risk youth.  As it grew into Trenton Arts at Princeton, funding from the Department of Music, Lewis Center for the Arts, Pace Center for Civic Engagement, and Office of the Provost provided the opportunity to bus the highschoolers to campus and increase the staff. Chen acts in an administrative role in organizing TAP’s programs, both fostering connections across campus and Trenton and training Princeton students. For Chen, these relationships are an essential part of his work.
“Seeing people interact, who otherwise maybe wouldn't be interacting, because of the barriers that exist to getting people to Trenton or to Princeton, is very rewarding,” he said.
Princeton students have several opportunities to become involved in TAP. For students seeking a slightly less demanding commitment, there are options to meaningfully assist with SMArts that require less time. Students can volunteer to teach a group of students or, for a more personalized experience, students can lead individual workshops, where they work weekly with one student and build a personal rapport between musicians.
Students interested in taking a larger role within the organization can apply for a Trenton Arts fellowship, a paid student position within the organization. Fellows lead one of the four arts groups and participate in weekly meetings with their cohort. However, TAP is also flexible in engaging Princeton students who do not see a current role that suits their interests.
“If there is a need that you think you can fill, join our team. That’s how we’ve gotten some of our best students engaged. It’s because they were nontraditional fits for the program but found someplace where they could give help. And we're always open to innovation,” Chen noted.
TAP is an opt-in program for both the college and high school participants, so all students involved have a passion for the arts and a commitment to the program. For Trenton Central High School students, TAP exists as a way to expand the skills that students already learn in school. Trenton Central High School students join Small Learning Communities that provide a focus to their studies. One of these communities is the Visual and Performing Arts (VPA) community. For students in the VPA, TAP acts both as a supplement and an expansion of their primary education.
Andy Seabert, a teacher leader of the Visual and Performing Arts program, has seen the increased opportunities that his students have found through TAP.
“There’s room for multiple arts. TAP allows students who are maybe focused on one art a chance to experiment with another art outside of their high school schedule. When they’ve got core classes, and sports and other things going on, they don’t always have the room for that second experience. I think it helps them become more well-rounded as artists and creators,” Seabert said.
While support from student leaders is a way for Trenton students to hone their performance skills, TAP is also a creative outlet for Princetonians themselves. Fellow Charlotte Defriez ’26 became involved when she wanted to continue practicing the violin while engaging with a new community. Since then, SMArts has become a highlight of her work, interacting with both Princeton and Trenton high school students.
“I just love the community. I want to be doing this on my weekends. It’s just amazing,” said Defriez.
TAP’s upcoming 5th anniversary showcase will be held in Richardson Auditorium on Apr. 6. Tickets can be found on the Princeton Ticketing website.
Isabella Dail is a member of the Class of 2026 and head editor for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at id7289[at]princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Tierra Lewis ’25 and Sophie Main ’25 are pursuing a senior thesis in dance — each choreographing a dance piece with small casts. Their show “Momentum” is composed of Lewis’s piece, “Sync” and Main’s piece, “Tank.” I sat down with them to chat about their journeys with these performances.
This interview has been edited for clarity and concision.
The Daily Princetonian:
Could you please tell us a little bit about yourself, what dance means to you, and how it’s manifested in your life?
Tierra Lewis:
I’m a senior from Southern California in the SPIA department and getting certificates in American Studies and Dance. Dance means a lot of things. It’s been one of my favorite things at Princeton. It’s helped me meet many people and a lot of my closest friends. What I focus on is hip-hop, street dance, club dance, and Black art styles. I’ve enjoyed learning about the history and technique that goes into all these different styles and trying to bring them all together.
Sophie Main:
I’m a senior in the Art and Archaeology department. I’m receiving a minor in the dance program. Dance has always been with me. I was trained at the same studio from age three. I’m a proud member of BodyHype Dance Company, and it’s defined my Princeton experience. I also think the dance program has helped me shape who I am as a dancer. I don’t think I found who I was as a dancer or choreographer until Princeton, and I’m so thankful I found it here.
DP:
Tierra, can you tell us about your dance piece and what the title “Sync” means to you?
TL:
The piece is about different spaces in which people dance together. One space is the in-person environment, including physical spaces where people dance in person with others. We also look at online or digital environments where dance happens. This includes things like social media, where people may be physically dancing together, but it’s for a camera. They’re not really engaging with each other — they’re engaging with the camera. The piece’s final section is putting those two spaces together. The name “Sync” comes from looking at the digital environment. It also shows us dancing together in sync. There are multiple meanings to “Sync.”
Sophie, can you tell us about your piece and what the title “Tank” means to you?
SM:
I had a performance art concept tied to my visual artwork. Once I started working with the dancers, I realized it was about their virtuosity and this act of watching them do choreography I could never even dream of executing. The name “Tank” came from an exercise I did last spring where we were mirroring the fish bowl aesthetic. “Tank” means terrarium to me, but I open it up to other meanings. I think the act of looking is key: looking at dancers doing impossible choreography to the best of their ability, and sometimes failing.
What would you say was the most enlightening or fulfilling part of the process for you?
I’m doing a dance thesis based on hip-hop, and since there haven’t been many of those at Princeton, it was enlightening to talk to those few other people who have done this kind of work before and get their experience on it. I talked with two alumni, one named Lauren, who did the first hip-hop thesis in 2019. I also talked with Liam Lynch, who helps teach the co-curricular classes through the Lewis Center for the Arts. They were really helpful in giving specific advice related to hip-hop, like what I should be doing and how it’s different from what other people might be doing for their theses based on the style.
What would you say was the most challenging part of the process for you?
Having a piece that is 35 minutes long is so much longer than anything I’ve ever created, and this is the most impressive and massive theater I’ve ever worked with. Going from student dance groups to more individual solos for the dance program, I went in blind with how to make an evening-length piece. Without my dancers, who helped me through the process, I’m not sure how it would have gone.
How did you decide that your two distinct pieces would pair well together, and what does the title of the show “Momentum” mean to the both of you?
I feel very grateful to work with Tierra, and I think our pieces fit well together. The dance program decides what pieces get paired up, and I think the theme of performance and viewership tied us together. For mine, it’s a general sense of enclosure and active audience. Our alley setup, which is the audience on both sides looking inward and at each other, really plays into that. We are both connected with our individual titles, but a sense of movement towards and through is really important.
I agree that our pieces are definitely very similar in their themes, so I feel that was a good pair. For the title, I wanted to look at the history of hip-hop and how hip-hop has gained momentum. It still has a lot of places to go from what it is now. Overall, both of our pieces build toward energy as well.
How did you both choose the set of dancers in each of your pieces?
My cast includes three other people and me. It’s a mix of people I’ve met through student-run dance companies and classes through the dance department, as well as at the beginning of the semester through open workshops that we held, where anyone could come and learn about our piece and process.
I came into the workshop portion in September with three dancers I really wanted in my cast. During open workshops, I met a freshman who ended up joining the cast. I wanted people who had training in contemporary dance, but also people who could bring a sense of maturity with their dancing. That’s something I looked for, and I was so surprised to find a freshman, Renata, who is controlling the space by anyone’s measure. She’s so talented, and the workshops helped open my mind to more dancers on campus.
What do you hope the audience will take away from your dance pieces?
I hope the audience takes away how talented dancers at Princeton are and how hard they work. I’m deeply proud of my cast and their work ethic. I hope that appreciation and, hopefully, some fascination with the process is gleaned by the audience. I also think the audience is a part of dance. Reflecting is not only about the dancers approaching the dance but how they operate as audience members — how they feel seen or not seen by the material.
Hip-hop is generally not something you see in a senior thesis project. So this is the second one of its kind. It’s having that space where people can interact with something that should not be taken lightly. My cast and I worked hard on the foundations and techniques, and we tried to embody all these different environments. We reflected on their interaction and engagement with black art forms while also enjoying the piece and having fun.
Make sure to check out Tierra and Sophie this weekend at Momentum, playing on Feb. 20, 21, and 22 at 8:30 p.m. at Hearst Dance Theater in the Lewis Arts complex.
Monica Zepeda is a contributing writer for The Prospect and a member of the Class of 2028. She can be reached at mz9063[at]princeton.edu
Please send any corrections to corrections@dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.In February, I experienced a play that is rare at Princeton. It was created for Black women, about Black women, and by Black women. And it was powerful. “Love Type Beat,” written and directed by seniors Tanéyah Jolly ’24 and Nica Evans ’24, was an immersive play staged in the Lewis Center for the Art’s Wallace Theater about Black women and femmes’ many experiences with love, moving the audience through six vignettes of raw, intimate scenes.
When the show debuted two days after Valentine’s Day, I could feel the love in the air. From conversations with other audience members, both Black and non-Black, many people felt it. This raises a critical question: Why don’t shows like this happen more often? There is so much communal and cultural importance in centering Black voices through Black theater — and Princeton’s theater department must do more to create spaces to center Black voices, beyond stereotypical archetypes and traditional modes of theater-making it has adhered to.
Black students have few spaces on campus that are solely for them. These spaces are especially rare not only at Princeton, but PWIs more generally: Theater, and virtually every other space on campus, tend to be very white. “I don’t know if the show would have had the same impact if it was … at an HBCU,” co-director Evans said. “The stuff that usually gets put on here does not center Black women in that way. For the Black students, who are a minority here, being able to enter this space where they are the majority [is special].” Given this, it is particularly important that shows like “Love Type Beat” continue being produced at institutions like Princeton.
The play’s immersive mode of presentation is powerful, and atypical for American theater. Instead of having a distinct “fourth wall,” typical of traditional American theater, “Love Type Beat” was interactive: In some scenes, the audience sat up close, on the same level as the actors, making the performance more intimate. In others, audience members intermingled with actors and were active participants in how the scene played out.
“[In] Broadway especially, you really are supposed to be quiet and watch,” co-director Jolly said. “That’s not really how Black folks engage with entertainment. You laugh [out] loud, you’re giving each other looks … you’re really in community.”
Black theater, stemming from African diasporic storytelling traditions, emphasizes community-building rather than individual performance and incorporates call-and-response elements that invite connection and liberation. As cast member Runnie Exuma GS told me, this can “disrupt and disorient the ways in which stories can be told and staged.”
“Love Type Beat” embodied these elements of Black theater in its active engagement and outward expression. But this method has been widely unrecognized, and thus is in need of active, persistent support from the Princeton theater department — beyond just individual students’ projects, and into the fabric of the department.
Princeton’s theater program should more deeply cover Black theater-making histories. With the implementation of minor programs this academic year, theater minors are now required to take Introduction to Theater Making, which is meant to give a foundational overview of a range of theater. However, the course’s only interaction with Black theater is Dominique Morisseau’s “The Detroit Project.” While “The Detroit Project” is written by a Black woman and centers Black life, Morisseau is more traditional in her theater-making.
And almost all courses — including Introduction to Theater Making — are taught from the perspective of traditional or “classic” American theater, which is white-centered. In addition, classes that dive deeply into Black performance and theater history, such as Black Performance Theory, are not required, so students might never learn about modes of theater outside of the traditional. And many years of students graduated without ever being exposed to Black theater-makers’ work: Prior to the 2023–24 school year, students obtaining a theater certificate simply had to choose a selection of five theater-related courses.
Princeton currently isn’t designed to support non-traditional theater institutionally — plays like “Love Type Beat” have only been produced because of students themselves pushing the bounds of storytelling through their work. While “Love Type Beat” was a valuable project that proved to the Princeton community that there is a desire for Black stories, this was still an independently-led and temporary event. This puts the burden of creating spaces for Black people on Black students themselves, and it doesn’t examine the theater department’s role in what they could do to foster the creation of these spaces to begin with.
Beyond uplifting Black creators, these shows can also create space for Black community members: “Love Type Beat” was also special because it validated Black students’ experiences. Audience member Ayinde Bradford ’24 said making “experiences … that are so personal and so private available for all of us to see … [makes] us not feel alone.” For the cast, which was majority Black women, the play mirrored their experience: “these are our real experiences. There’s … certain things [in the script that] you will only get … if you’re Black,” cast member Oriana Nelson ’25 said.
“Love Type Beat” only ran for five shows, but it showed something much deeper: a community desire for this kind of art. According to directors Evans and Jolly, “Love Type Beat” sold out every show and opened more seats in its second weekend running to allow more people to be able to see the show. As cast member Maya Jaaskelainen ’24 said, “This is what people need.”
“Love Type Beat” was more than a performance. It was a communal gathering, a site of healing and consolation, a source of hope and inspiration. It showcased Black women’s love in a very real and genuine way. Like such, more stories honoring and centering Black stories need to be told at Princeton, and the institution needs to provide more care for Black students in every department, theater included. Theater is “like play,” cast member Mollika Singh ’24 said. “It’s imaginative and fun. You know, if you have good leadership, it’s a …good place to strengthen friendships, build new ones, and just have a good time.” This is the theater future that Princeton needs to build: one that reimagines what it means to do theater and tells stories about people who have long been underrepresented.
Jewel Justice is a contributing columnist majoring in African American Studies. She can be reached at jewelj[at]princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Lost your AirPods? You’re not alone. Forty-seven students posted about missing headphones to Hoagie Digest this year.
The Hoagie Digest, sent out to all of the residential college listservs typically on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, is a compilation of student posts made to Hoagie Stuff. Hoagie Stuff is an online platform where students can send posts to the entire Princeton student body.
Hoagie Digest allows students to post concert tickets for sale, split an Uber to the airport, request sociology surveys, and much more. “Think of it as a Craigslist…for Princeton students,” Dennis Jacob ’24, vice president of Hoagie Club, told The Daily Princetonian.
With the goal of reducing spam in students’ inboxes, Hoagie Digest features three categories of student posts: Marketplace, Bulletins, and Lost & Found. The platform can help with more unique requests too. For example, one bulletin post from October 10 was looking for a person to help clean bugs in a dorm room.
“I started to send out the email, just hoping someone would respond to it and help save me. Get the bugs out of my room.” Alyssa Traylor ’25 said.
She explained that she got an email response within three minutes of sending the email and that a fellow Scully resident helped clean out her room.
“It was really nice that someone was able to come to my rescue that quickly, you know?” Traylor said. “And that he was so willing, even after me asking him to come by late.”
Using the LISTSERV archives of the residential colleges, the ‘Prince’ analyzed the number and category of all emails sent through Hoagie Digest from September 2nd, 2023, to April 6th, 2024.
At the end of each email, Hoagie Digest includes a metric of how many emails are saved by the compilation of student posts. In the 2023–2024 school year, Hoagie Digest has saved a total of 436 emails, grouping the postings in each Digest instead of each being sent individually. Each Hoagie Digest email saves Princetonians an average of 4.31 emails.
Some of the most common postings sent through Hoagie Mail were related to concerts, rideshares, roommate inquiries, and surveys. Of the 20 emails sent through Hoagie Digest requesting survey responses, eight of the emails, 40 percent, were for the class SOC 101: Introduction to Sociology. Only one request was for a senior thesis.
The largest group of postings sent, however, related to listening devices. Forty-seven emails about missing or found AirPods and their cases, Beats earbuds, Studio buds, and Sony headphones were sent this year. Airpod losses peaked in the second week of November, with four Hoagie Digest emails sent.
Hoagie Club president Liam Esparraguera ’24 noted that the idea for creating Hoagie Digest “spawned naturally out of the user needs” among Princeton students. When Hoagie Mail was first launched in Fall 2021, “some of the residential college listservs were a bit hesitant to let [Hoagie Mail] send on there for worry of spam…Given these concerns over the potential for spam, I think that’s what inspired the digest.”
“We are working on transitioning Hoagie from a closed-off team of students working on and developing student applications to an open community of students who are working on creative or technical projects of their own,” Esparraguera said.
To send an email to Hoagie Digest, go to this HoagieMail website, click “Send a New Email,” then select “Student Sales,” “Lost and Found Items,” or “Everything Else.” Through Hoagie Digest, you can ask, and there’s a good chance that a Princetonian will respond.
Shria Ajay is a contributing Data writer for the 'Prince.'
Ruoming Shen is a contributing Data writer for the 'Prince.'
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.To a large extent, Princeton runs on email listservs. And sometimes, they can get a bit quirky.
Princeton FreeFood is an email listserv operated by USG to provide students around campus with real time updates on where free food, typically leftover from student or University events, is located. At 4,574 members, it is the sixth largest listserv operated on the University network. The free food listserv is a critical resource for students not on a meal plan, and an occasional delight for many others.
FreeFood is open to anyone with a University email address. Occasionally, the free food is the entertainment it provides.

On Aug. 25, 2022, Michael Kim ’23, a senior in the Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Department (EEB) from Andover, Mass., made his first appearance on the FreeFood listserv. He was about to become an integral part of the FreeFood community. “Hi guy s I would like to be add to the free (no $$$) food list servev [sic],” Kim wrote. Since then, Kim has written to the listserv 63 times. Kim has become a fixture through his curious prose, mischievous photo attachments, and occasional defenses of the listserv’s integrity. He spoke with The Daily Princetonian on his thoughts on conditionally free food and trolling.
The free food listserv became an issue of campus concern recently after an officer of the dance group Más Flow, used the group to offer free Junbi boba. But it turned out there were strings attached. The Junbi was only free if readers bought a ticket to the upcoming Más Flow show. Five hours later, Kim responded, asking posters not to post food that was not truly free. “My heart is broken and my appetite is in shamblès,” Kim wrote with possibly ironic despair. In a follow-up, Kim articulated his full philosophy of free food. “I must protest that something conditionally free is not the same as being actually free,” he wrote. “If we were to accept conditionally free as being actually free, then all food would be free, on the condition that one steals the food instead of paying for it,” he continued.
Other members of the free food listserv disagreed. Diego Solorio ’24, who in his emails referred to himself as Dicky Duck, claimed to be the Artistic Director of the performance group Little Rascals. There is no evidence that there is any performance group on campus by that name. He claimed in an email to the listserv that food available with the purchase of tickets available on Passport to the Arts should be eligible to be promoted on the free food listserv. Passport to the Arts allows eligible undergraduate students to see two student performances for free per year.
The issue was not an isolated incident. The free food listserv has been sporadically used for student groups to advertise their events (or in one case, app), usually with, in Kim’s terms, conditionally free food attached.
Kim’s simple plea caught the ear of the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) President. Two weeks later, USG President Stephen Daniels ’24 clarified the listserv’s rules in an email. Daniels re-emphasized that spam was not allowed and that all food posted had to be actually, with “no strings attached to getting the food,” according to the email.
Solorio, along with another student who refers to himself by Rickey Rat, also claiming to be affiliated with the dubious Little Rascals group, wrote to the ‘Prince,’ “While we understand the need for clear guidelines and expectations for the FreeFood listserv, we believe that the USG should have made this decision more transparently and with input from FreeFood listserv members.”
Daniels said that the change in the guidelines “were a response to a significant amount of student feedback.”
Kim was ready with a rejoinder, noting that Daniels’s announcement did not advertise any free food. Kim also speculated that by creating rules in the first place, Daniels was making all food conditionally free.
Of course, when it comes to sending emails that do not include actually free food, Kim is a prime offender. When crafting his emails, Kim notes that they are “more of a spontaneous bit of fun,” though it is “definitely become more than a one-off thing.”
He adds that there is “no broader mission” to his emails, but that he hopes his “emails bring some enjoyment to a campus culture that can sometimes be oppressively academically rigorous.”
Some posts mimic the style of typical posts in the listserv, such as one where Kim posts a single grain of rice for the taking in “woodrow wilson no wait hobson dining hall,” a reference to the former name of the former First College’s namesake and the future presence of Hobson College’s dining hall in the same location.
Other posts deviate from the FreeFood format, such as a post where Kim wishes the listserv a Happy New Year and encourages FreeFood recipients to create “SMART Goals,” with “SMART” standing for “specific, measurable, achievable, ranch dressing, and time-based.” Kim’s prose often dips into the partially coherent, and the use of strange fonts and bold colors — reminiscent of a website from the ’90s — is an integral part of every Kim free food post.
Some other members of the free food listserv praised Kim’s contributions. Solorio and Rat wrote in an email to the ‘Prince’ that they “appreciate” Kim’s silly posts and affirm that “his emails provide a much-needed light hearted and entertaining atmosphere for our hard working and often sleep deprived students and faculty.”
However, Kim is not without his detractors. Throughout many of his email chains, there are several students who have spoken out against his spam, including graduate student Zachary Dulberg who asked Kim to “kindly stfu” in November 2022 and Trang Ngo ’25 who wrote “stop, merry christmas!” in a December 2022 email, both in response to initial emails sent by Kim.
In response to criticism of his posts, Kim said, “You’re not you when you’re hangry.” Kim went on to apologize, saying, “for any nuisance my emails cause, and I acknowledge that the people who don’t enjoy my emails as much have been for the most part very patient with me.”
Vitus Larrieu is a features contributor and an assistant Podcast editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Students on Princeton’s unlimited dining plan now have five new restaurants they can eat out at using the dining points established in an Undergraduate Student Government (USG) initiative at the start of the 2022–23 academic year: Chennai Chimney, Greek Bites, Junbi, Lan Ramen, and Thomas Sweet.
Greek Bites and Lan Ramen have been listed as Pay with Points locations on the TigerCard website as early as Monday, Nov. 7 and were officially announced as partners in a USG email to undergraduates on Wednesday, Nov. 9. Chennai Chimney, Junbi, and Thomas Sweet appeared on the list as early as Sunday, Nov. 13 and were officially announced via a Monday, Nov. 14 email.
This brings the total number of participating non-University-affiliated dining locations to eleven, as students have been able to spend dining points at Café 701, Jammin’ Crepes, Proof Pizzeria, Small World Coffee, Say Cheez Café, and The Bent Spoon since the start of the semester.
With the doubling of the number of participating locations and more on the way, those spearheading the project look to establish Pay with Points as something both shaped by and strengthening the community on campus.
“The idea is that we want to get fifteen restaurants by the end of the semester,” said Community Dining Task Force Chair Stephen Daniels ’24 in an interview with The Daily Princetonian, meaning that students can expect five additional restaurants to be added in the next few weeks.
Daniels also noted that administrators and student representatives working on the Pay with Points program plan to implement new feedback mechanisms soon, including focus groups. He noted that the program’s team has “been relying on student feedback” in tailoring the initiative thus far, and students should “look out for opportunities” to voice their opinions on the program.
Students can sign up for a focus group via a link in the aforementioned Nov. 9 email.
Daniels told the ‘Prince’ that the Pay with Points team has already sent out a feedback survey to the Scholars Institute Fellows Program (SIFP) community since the USG-led program has potential to significantly benefit the first-generation, low-income (FGLI) students that SIFP serves.
Daniels repeatedly emphasized the Pay with Points program’s potential to foster community engagement and connections, recounting conversations with students who’ve used dining points to grab coffee together or eat out in celebration of a friend’s birthday.
He also noted the increased variety in dining options with the latest additions to the program, with options from Chennai Chimney, an Indian restaurant on Chambers Street that he described as “more of a sit-down” restaurant that serves full meals, to Thomas Sweet, an ice cream option near the current E-Quad.
Lan Ramen, which is located on Hulfish Street, provides a similar sit-down experience. Greek Bites, located inside the Chase Bank building on Nassau Street, is a recently-renovated offshoot of Local Greek — a restaurant in the town of Princeton further from campus.
Junbi, the fifth newly participating business, is known for its matcha and boba tea options, and has been frequently mentioned by students as a desired Pay with Points location, including in a USG feedback session and in recent ‘Prince’ coverage.
Daniels also acknowledged that some upperclass students have expressed interest in being included in the program, especially considering the experiences many of them lost in their early years at Princeton due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
More broadly, he encouraged students to continue voicing their opinions about Pay with Points as the program expands. “We’re always listening to student feedback,” he said.
Annie Rupertus is a sophomore from Philadelphia, an assistant Data editor, and a staff News writer who covers USG for the ‘Prince.’ Please direct any corrections requests to corrections@dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On Sunday, Oct. 9, the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) debated taking an official stance on proposals to change the upperclass dining system, voted to pass a set of reforms to the student elections handbook, and held a feedback session on the new Pay with Points program.
These discussions of the junior and senior dining experience come in the wake of a leaked University plan to expand dining options by giving all upperclass students five swipes per week to use at any dining hall, dining co-operative, or eating club, and the subsequent release of a student-initiated alternative plan. There has been no official announcement from the University regarding the student-proposed pilot.
At the onset of the dining discussion, the question posed to the senate via the meeting slideshow read, “Do you support the USG Senate endorsing the five point plan, as presented by the coalition of student leaders, as a basis for the campus-wide discussion to address fluidity in the upperclass dining experience?”
USG President Mayu Takeuchi ’23 presented the question as independent from the pilot program itself but rather one addressing fluidity in upperclass dining. She said that a vote to endorse the student-initiated five point plan would not necessarily be a vote to reject the administration’s proposal.
“Just to be clear, this current discussion of the five point plan today is independent of the merits and shortcomings of the dining pilot itself,” Takeuchi said. “This is more of a discussion focused in the context of addressing this issue of fluidity in upperclass dining.”
Later on, Takeuchi added, “Endorsing the plan does not necessarily mean that we do endorse or oppose the dining pilot as developed by the administration.”
Some senate members, however, pushed back on this point, as the five point plan created by student leaders was initially framed “as an alternative to the dining program and pilot developed by the University administration” within the body of the proposal.
“I think that a vote on [the five point plan] will effectively communicate an endorsement of this plan that opposes the University’s plan, but you want us to act like that’s not the case,” U-Councilor Dillion Gallagher ’23 said.
Takeuchi responded to further debate by clarifying that the steps outlined in the five point plan could be viewed as either “additive or alternative” to the University’s proposal, or, in the words of U-Councilor Daniel Shaw ’25, it would “be theoretically possible for the USG to support both the five point plan and the administration’s pilot.”
Given that no official information has been released by the University, Takeuchi explained that USG cannot yet vote on a stance.
Though the meeting agenda initially called for the senate to vote on an official position regarding the student-initiated proposal, members expressed a desire for more information prior to taking any official stance.
U-Councilor Judah Guggenheim ’25 brought up the possibility that USG vote to call on the University to release official information about the pilot, and the senate ultimately decided to table a vote on its stance and instead take an electronic vote later in the week regarding whether it should officially call on the University to release more information. The timing of the vote on this stance is yet to be determined.
The senate also unanimously passed a set of changes to the Elections Handbook as part of the ongoing USG Reform Project.
The updates include: (1) the implementation of electronic petitioning to replace paper petitions, (2) a clarification of the rules regarding electronic campaign messaging, including a new mandatory disclaimer that must be included in any campaign message sent to more than ten people at once, (3) additional language on ballots that clarify the meaning of abstentions, (4) a delay to the winter elections calendar by two weeks, (5) the renaming of pre-election “open houses” to “rules meetings,” (6) the inclusion in the handbook of an already-existing rule that bans “expenditures on cash equivalents” like gift cards, (7) the elimination of an “unenforceable” 100-sheet limit on paper campaign posters, and (8) adjustments to the language in the handbook that prohibits the Chief Elections Manager (CEM) from checking election results while a complaint or appeal is pending, in order to better align with the Election Runner program.
Campus and Community Affairs (CCA) Chair and Reform Project leader Isabella Shutt ’24 explained the changes to the winter election calendar, saying that with the previous timeline, “[w]e essentially take what’s already a really short semester for USG and chop it down even further by having sort of a sitting duck period.”
Takeuchi added that the election timelines in official USG documents have not been changed since the University shifted in fall 2020 to a calendar where final exams occur prior to winter break.
The changes will be implemented immediately following the 2026 Class Council Election, for which voting closes on Wednesday, Oct. 12.
Shutt also opened a conversation around potential reforms to the structure of the U-Council. The Reform Project’s proposal, titled “Everyone’s a Senator,” advocates for all U-Councilors to be made senators. Instead of ten U-Councilors being elected within the same cycle, the proposal puts forth the idea that senator elections would be split between the winter and spring elections, with six Senators total from each class — three from each elected in both the fall and the spring.
The senate would then hold an internal election to determine which senators should represent USG in Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) meetings.
According to Shutt, the proposal responds to concerns about low-candidate turnout in U-Council elections, as well as issues with varying commitment among U-Councilors to attendance at USG Senate meetings.
Senate members debated the necessity of electing members based on class year and the potential effects of this proposal on voter turnout.
USG also held a feedback session with University Services administrators Chris Lentz and Emma Marshall on the new Pay with Points program introduced this semester.
Marshall reported that 81 percent of underclass students have used the program so far, which she characterized as “great numbers,” and that the average student has spent about a quarter of their available points so far.
She also reported positive feedback from vendors, noting that one participating location even reported increased numbers of students applying for jobs there since the start of the program.
“There’s definitely a lot of buzz in the community about it,” Marshall said.
Administrators are currently seeking additional vendors for the program, taking into account factors like diversity of restaurant options and availability of options throughout the day. According to Lentz, administrators hope to reach 15 total merchants before 2023, and they expect one vendor to be added by the end of October.
Shutt suggested that the administration consider adding Tacoria and Junbi to the roster of participating restaurants.
The Senate also heard an update from Sustainability Chair Audrey Zhang ’25. She reported that the Sustainability Committee’s two major projects for the remainder of the semester include hosting an eco-festival event, tentatively scheduled for Saturday, Nov. 12, and working towards increased vegan and vegetarian food options in the dining halls. The committee hopes that by next semester, Campus Dining will assign a different dining hall each day to serve exclusively vegan and vegetarian options.
USG Senate meetings are held in Betts Auditorium in the School of Architecture at 4 p.m. on Sunday afternoons and are open to all.
Annie Rupertus is a sophomore from Philadelphia, an Assistant Data Editor, and a News staff writer who covers USG for the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at arupertus@princeton.edu or @annierupertus on Instagram and Twitter.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Senate approved its fall budget and passed the first of two votes on a resolution to establish a Deputy Elections Manager (DEM) position during its meeting on Sunday, Sept. 25.
The senate voted unanimously in favor of the resolution after it was slightly adjusted following a meeting on Wednesday, Sept. 7 in which senate members raised a number of concerns about the initial proposal. The resolution was put forward in an effort to provide more support to the student serving as Chief Elections Manager (CEM), a role that was under pressure last spring in the midst of controversy over vote-counting procedures pertaining to a referendum.
“There were a lot of concerns about feedback from our [CEM], which I now believe has all been resolved,” said USG Senator Walker Penfield ’25 when reintroducing the resolution in this week’s meeting.
Campus and Community Affairs (CCA) Chair Isabella Shutt ’24 explained that — upon receiving feedback from CEM Brian Li ’24 — the resolution was changed so that the CEM would still be responsible for running the election rules meetings. USG candidates or referendum advocates are supposed to still understand the CEM as the primary point person for issues that arise during elections.
The updated resolution also allows for email inboxes to be a shared responsibility between the CEM and DEM. The DEM position will not go into effect until Jan. 30, 2023, to coincide with the start of the next USG administration.
According to Article 11 of the USG Senate Constitution, “The Senate may amend this Constitution by a 2/3 vote at 2 consecutive meetings.” Having passed one of these two votes, if a second vote passes at a future meeting, USG will have two appointed elections managers at all times as opposed to the previous model of one appointed CEM with the option to choose additional elections managers or not.
The senate also voted unanimously to pass the proposed budget for the fall semester, which totals $250,016.
USG Movies Committee Chair Addele Hargenrader ’24 also fielded questions from the senate about this semester’s $22,000 movies budget, explaining that the movies committee has shifted towards screening more new movies at the Garden Theater, which necessitates a per-student cost as opposed to a flat rate for reruns. She noted the past two weekends’ movie showings have been well-attended with about 100 students per night.
USG President Mayu Takeuchi ’23 also clarified that while the original budget proposal included a $20,000 reserve in the event that the senate would need to hold a bonfire this year, this number was amended to $10,000 following conversations with University administrators.
With these edits to the budget, $29,516 of reserve money remains, not including the bonfire allocation.
The senate also heard a number of updates from committee chairs and smaller projects.
Shutt gave a report on the Tigers in Town program, which now includes a check-in table and relaxation station at Hinds Plaza in front of the Princeton Public Library where participating students must pick up tickets. This week’s vendors include Small World Coffee and Olives on Wednesday, Terra Momo and Bread Boutique on Thursday, and Halo Pub and Junbi on Friday; students can only sign up for one restaurant per week.
Shutt also requested that students fill out the town of Princeton’s Community Master Plan student survey.
USG heard from the Student Groups Recognition Committee (SGRC) Chair Derek Nam ’23 about eight recently-approved student organizations: Generational African American Students Association, K-Femme (a no-cut K-pop dance group for female-identifying students), Princeton Association of Women in STEM, Princeton Biotechnology Group, Princeton Intercultural Students of America, Princeton University Economic Development Organization, Society of Asian Scientists and Engineers, and TigerApps.
TigerApps — known for such projects as ReCal, Princeton Courses, and TigerSnatch — has already existed on campus for some time but is now seeking official recognition “so [it] can apply for funding as [its] own entity,” according to Nam.
USG Senators Ned Dockery ’25 and Penfield reported that about 300 students read the First-Year Student Experience Committee’s guide for incoming first-years. “We were really happy to see that level of engagement,” Dockery said.
Academics Chair Austin Davis ’23 presented a debrief of this year’s Academic Expo, which he noted was the “first in-person Academic Expo since [he] was a first-year.” He said the event received positive feedback, though the senate did discuss some concerns related to foot traffic at the event, the availability of student representatives before the upperclassmen move-in date, and more broadly, the timing of the expo within a jam-packed orientation schedule.
Takeuchi gave an update on the Ad Hoc Committee for Data Analytics, which the Senate Executive Committee established on Tuesday, Sept. 20. The committee is set to expire on Sunday, Jan. 29, 2023.
USG Senate meetings are held in Betts Auditorium in the School of Architecture at 4 p.m. on Sunday afternoons and are open to all.
Annie Rupertus is a sophomore from Philadelphia and a News staff writer who covers USG for the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at arupertus@princeton.edu or @annierupertus on Instagram and Twitter.
Correction: A previous version of this article stated that the referendum to establish a Deputy Elections Manager had passed the USG Senate. In fact, it had only passed one of two votes needed to amend the USG Senate Constitution. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.At the start of the semester, students welcomed the University’s new Pay with Points program, a campus dining initiative championed by the Undergraduate Student Government (USG).
With the new program, each student on the unlimited meal plan receives $150 each semester (in the form of Dining Points) to spend at specific local businesses in the Princeton area, as well as at on-campus dining locations. All first-years and sophomores are required to hold the unlimited meal plan.
Students have generally responded positively to the program’s aims.
“As a student on financial aid, I feel like [Pay with Points] was really helpful for me to go out on [Nassau Street] with my friends without worrying about spending too much money,” Monica Jun ’26 wrote in a message to The Daily Princetonian, adding that she’s been using her points at The Bent Spoon and Jammin’ Crepes.
U-Councilor Stephen Daniels ’24, who chairs the Community Dining Task Force, said that the purpose of this program is to create “an opportunity for all students to be able to engage with some of the food options in town and on campus that aren’t a part of the meal plan.”
Daniels said he is optimistic that the program will also benefit the vendors.
“It’s going to be a big thing for the local economy,” he said. “The vendors have been really excited about it, and I’m certain that there’s going to be a lot of appetite for vendors to get involved in the program.”
As of now, it’s not clear whether the program has caused an uptick in business beyond FitzRandolph Gate.
Small World Coffee barista Allyson Cubler, who has worked at the coffee shop for almost a year, told the ‘Prince’ that she hasn’t noticed a significant increase in sales since the program began.
“Business just gets a little busier anyways when students come back [to campus],” she said.
This program has been in the works for several years, according to former USG Senator Brad Phelps ’22.
“I proposed a task force on community dining to create this sort of program,” he said, “and then we had COVID, so it shut down and we just restarted it last fall.”
To Phelps, the program is “a very visible demonstration of how students’ energy, opinions, enthusiasm, and feedback can shape university policy and programs.”
While students are excited about the program’s existence, many said they hope to see it expand and improve in the coming months. Jun said she “think[s] it would be nice if there were more sponsors.”
Other students similarly said they hope for a greater number of dining locations. Students specifically mentioned they hope to see Tacoria, Junbi Bubble Tea Shop, and Ficus make the list of participating eateries.
“Personally, I haven’t [used any points yet] because the places that they have the points for are not the places that I usually go to,” Audrey Chau ’25 told the ‘Prince.’
Chau is a former assistant opinion editor for the ‘Prince.’
“I don’t want to waste all of the points right away,” Jashvi Desai ’25 added, noting that she’d heard more locations would be added to the program and she’d rather save her points for after that happens. Desai suggested that USG could run a survey to collect student input about which eateries students would like to see added to the program.
“A few places that are relatively popular is a good start, but I wish it would include more dinner/lunch restaurants rather than coffee/dessert places,” Genevieve Cox ’25 wrote in a message to the ‘Prince.’ She’s used some points already for ice cream and at Coffee Club, but noted, “sometimes I want more substantial food rather than just snacks.”
Cox participated in the community dining pilot program in 2021 and previously spoke with the ‘Prince’ about the importance of this program for first-generation, low income students and students who “miss cultural cooking” from home. She noted that after seeing the program begin this year, she hopes the number of restaurants included will reach the greater array of options that were available as part of the pilot program.
For vendors currently included in the program, the process of integrating the new payment method seems to be going fairly smoothly. Although Coffee Club — Princeton’s student-run coffee shop in the basement of Campus Club — was not originally able to accept points when the program first started, student employee Gail Samuel ’25 confirmed that the popular café is now accepting points as payment.
“The process itself is very simple,” said Jun, who has paid with points a few times. “It’s actually very convenient to just tap my [student ID] against the sensor.”
Associate News Editor Sandeep Mangat contributed reporting.
Annie Rupertus is a sophomore from Philadelphia and a News Staff Writer who covers USG for the 'Prince.' She can be reached at arupertus@princeton.edu or @annierupertus on Instagram and Twitter.
Madeleine LeBeau is a Staff Writer for the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at mlebeau@princeton.edu, on Instagram @madeleinelebeau, or on Twitter @MadeleineLeBeau.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Nearing midterms week, I’ve found myself craving an extra caffeine boost to get me through the day. As someone who gets tired and has headaches from drinking coffee — does anyone else experience this? — my saving grace is a good cup of matcha. As I’m sure all matcha-lovers know, however, the perfect cup of matcha is very hard to find. In the past week, I’ve made it my mission to drink at the most popular matcha places around Princeton to determine where the go-to place is, regardless of if you’re a matcha aficionado or curious first-timer.
Here is a list of Princeton’s matcha places, ranked from worst to best:
5. Junbi.
Placing Junbi at the bottom of the list may be a bit controversial given its status as a favorite pick me up among Princeton students. However, upon trying their most popular menu item, the Madagascar Vanilla Matcha, I couldn’t help but wish that the matcha taste was more pronounced. The vanilla flavor was lovely and added a touch of complexity to the drink, but the sweetness of the drink was overpowering  and masked the taste of matcha. If you are someone who enjoys a sweeter taste, then Junbi is a great match. But if you are someone who enjoys the bitter, earthy profile of matcha, then you should look elsewhere. I will vouch for their matcha soft serve, though, which is creamy, decadent, and has a strong matcha taste!
4. New College West (NCW) Coffee Club.
As someone who frequents Coffee Club, I was excited to try their iced matcha latte this semester. Compared to Junbi, the drink’s sweetness was more balanced, which brought out more of the earthiness and richness of the matcha. The flavors, however, were still not as pronounced as I would have liked them to be, as the drink was on the milkier side. I could see some matcha clumps at the bottom of my cup, which indicated that the matcha may have needed to be mixed more thoroughly. Something good about Coffee Club is that you can add additional flavors to your matcha, which elevates the taste. Last semester, Coffee Club had a fantastic honey matcha that was rich, smooth, and super consistent. The matcha this semester was slightly less yummy, although still tastier than Junbi!
3. Campus Club Coffee Club.
Of course, I had to try matcha at both locations of Coffee Club! Although the taste difference between the NCW and Campus Club location wasn’t very significant, I did find that the matcha was slightly more watery here,  as opposed to the milky taste found in NCW’s matcha. I noted that the matcha taste was more pronounced without the taste of milk covering it up, which made me like this cup more. I also really enjoyed the ambiance of the Campus Club location, with its live music and cozy interior. Enjoying your cup of matcha is also about where you drink it, so the lovely vibes of Campus Club really added to the experience!
2. Starbucks.
As someone who doesn’t drink Starbucks a lot, their iced matcha latte was shockingly good to me. Although it was still a bit too sweet, the matcha flavor was strong, and the drink was very smooth, so there weren’t any clumps. Starbucks is also quite consistent, with every matcha drink being the same quality. I would recommend trying their matcha with two pumps of chai — the spices of the chai add a really nice balance to the more rounded notes of the matcha.
1. Small World.
You guys, this has been a game changer. At the start of this semester, I discovered that Small World introduced an oat-infused matcha on their menu. As someone who doesn’t usually go for milk alternatives, I was a bit skeptical at first. But upon trying, I was pleasantly surprised at how rich, creamy, and silky their matcha was. You couldn’t tell that it was made from oat milk, and the matcha profile was very pronounced but not too bitter — perfect for any palette! The quality at Small World is also super consistent, as they make their matcha in batches every day. I could run out of adjectives describing how downright tasty their matcha was, so I just ask that you do yourself a favor and try it out. A pro-tip is to ask for less ice (they won’t charge you extra)!
Going through this experience and listing out all the matcha flavor profiles I’ve encountered, I’ve realized that there really isn’t a simple definition for what a perfect cup of matcha is. Depending on your preference, any of these places can be on the top of your list. All I ask of you is, if you haven’t tried matcha ever before, to give it a go. Who knows, maybe you’ll find yourself on a matcha-tasting journey through Princeton very soon.
Laura Zhang is a contributing writer for The Prospect from Sydney, Australia. She can be reached at lz8574@princton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On any given morning, Witherspoon Street’s Small World Coffee is packed with students studying between classes, professionals grabbing a quick cup to go, and old friends chatting over a warm beverage. The line almost always stretches out the door.
The shop’s air is thick with the scent of coffee beans and morning blends. Bags line the shelves across the aisle from the register, each small parcel bearing unique titles, like “Crispy Hippie,” “Morning Glory,” and “Love Blend.”
The baristas, or “Worldlings,” working behind the bar, click portafilters into espresso machines, occasionally yelling out the names of drinks (“Joe to go! Mocha with whipped cream! Iced Americano?”). A witty sign that reads “How have you bean?” hangs over the tip jar.
Small World celebrated its 30th anniversary in December 2023. Before owners and creators Jessica Durrie, also known as JD, and Brant Cosaboom brought their business idea to town, Princeton was lacking in coffee shops. Today, Small World operates two locations: one on Witherspoon St. and second on Nassau St., which opened in 2006.
The Daily Princetonian spoke with Durrie and employees at Small World Coffee to look at the origins and significance behind this community establishment, 30 years in the making.
Spending her childhood as an expat overseas, Durrie felt like a “fish out of water” as a student at the University of Michigan. After a year and a half, she dropped out and began “soul searching,” moving out to California.
Although she began working in restaurants to “pay the bills,” she soon “fell in love with the industry, and with hospitality and food and wine.”
She later got her undergraduate degree from Cornell Nolan School of Hotel Administration, after two and a half years of work experience. But, on a trip to Vienna to visit her brother, Durrie found her attention drawn to the coffee shops.
“I started visiting all the old world cafes there,” Durrie said. “And that's when I decided I wasn't going to open a restaurant, I wanted to open a coffee shop.”
After college, Durrie went straight to Michigan, rejecting other job offers to instead work at a coffee shop in Ann Arbor. “I wanted to learn the business from the bottom up,” she said. “And that's where I met Brant, at the coffee shop that we both worked at.”
The coffee shop was initially Durrie’s idea, and after some work in California, Cosaboom and Durrie both decided to pursue opening their own coffee shop.
“It was very strategic,” Durrie emphasized. “It wasn't this pie-in-the-sky idea, it was strategy and research…coupled with our practical experience and my degree from Cornell.”
After nine months “off and on” the road looking for the perfect location for their coffee shop, Durrie and Cosaboom landed in Princeton in 1993. They had originally “written [it] off,” because they thought the town was too small.
However, their minds were quickly changed.
“When we drove into the downtown, it was immediate,” Durrie said. “We saw the foot traffic, we saw the walkability, the retail mix, it was all there. It felt obvious to me that this was the town."
Durrie and Cosaboom immediately moved to town and started “pounding the pavement trying to get a landlord to rent to a 25-year-old and a 27-year-old.”
The name “Small World Coffee” was conceptualized during one of their 1993 road trips, and immediately resonated with both of them due to their shared experience as expats.
“When you grow up that way,” Durrie explained, “you start to see the commonality of all people, despite their cultural differences.”
For Durrie, her experience consistently having to find a sense of belonging has informed the ethos of Small World Coffee. Now, she reflects, “creating a sense of belonging [has] been sort of the backbone of the work that I've always done.”
Durrie believes that this belonging and community is created “from the inside out,” and noted that creating a sense of belonging for employees is integral for creating the same feeling for customers.
She added, “I think that we get the most out of people, the most out of humanity, when we all feel a sense of belonging, and then from there, we can do all sorts of amazing things.”
Durrie also noted the relationships Small World Coffee has cultivated within the community.
“The depth of relationships that have occurred behind that counter is insane,” Durrie said. “That web of relationships is a beautiful thing.”
Vincent Jule, the General Manager of Small World Coffee, oversees both the Nassau and Witherspoon locations. Jule, who has been with Small World for 23 years, described his experience working with the other Small World employees.
“One of the things that keeps [the Worldlings] around are the people that they work with, and the people that they meet,” Jule said. He added that Durrie and Cosaboom help to instill a “solid work ethic and sense of pride [and] integrity in what we do.”
When he was a new employee, Jule was impressed by the availability and involvement of Small World’s ownership, even seeing the owners washing dishes every now and then. “It always feels like a very collective experience.”
In 1997, Small World Roasters was created. “It's an integral part of the brand…having control over the quality of our coffee beans,” Durrie said. The roastery provides the blends offered for purchase in the shop, from “Colombian” to “Grumpy Monkey.”
The roastery has also allowed Small World to broaden their customer base to spaces like Witherspoon’s Café in Frist Campus Center, as well as farther away through mail orders. The roastery has over 60 wholesale customers, including The Bent Spoon, several eating clubs, many Whole Foods stores, and the Institute for Advanced Study.
Small World is also home to local artistry, displaying new art exhibits every month on the walls of the shop. The Witherspoon location hosts free public concerts on Saturday nights, featuring local bands who play their original songs. Jule said he tries to shed light on local musicians who don’t usually have the same amount of opportunities as cover bands.
Grace Phillips has been a Worldling at Small World Coffee for two years. Phillips grew up in West Windsor, and visited Small World and Princeton when she was younger.
After working in advertising copywriting for a decade, Phillips quit her job during the pandemic and applied to work at Small World Coffee. She wanted to do something that made her “feel like [she] accomplished something very specific at the end of the day.” Small World gave her that opportunity.
A typical day as a Worldling starts half an hour before opening. Rush times include the morning before people go to work, in between classes, or during coffee breaks. Worldlings spend an hour at each station during their shifts: the register, the espresso machine, bus station, and cleaning. Because the job can be very fast-paced, the rotation system prevents the Worldlings from burning out.
Jule estimates that Small World Coffee serves around 1,000 customers a day.
As a Worldling, Phillips has the opportunity to see the impact Small World has on its customers, residents, tourists, and students alike. She remarked on the interactions she has with tourists visiting the coffee shop, and she often directs them to fellow Princeton establishments in the area.
Phillips reflects on the “camaraderie” between Princeton shops, noting that employees from these establishments come to Small World as well.
“Princeton’s very busy. It’s small, but heavily trafficked,” Phillips said. “Even if we don’t know each other by name, necessarily, we all have each other's back[s].”
Phillips also reflected on how common the Pay with Points program has become since it was launched. She noted that there are some days and hours in which almost “every other transaction is a [Pay with Points] one.”
Phillips noted that the Worldlings at Small World aren’t unionized. “We are treated very well,” she explained. “There are very few service jobs that pay as well as this one, there are very few service jobs that have benefits, retirement, vacation, anything like that.”
Phillips also noted the ease with which she feels she can interact with the owners of Small World and raise complaints if necessary.
Durrie also commented on the treatment of Small World employees, citing fair compensation as the reason for the coffee shop’s “excellent employee retention.”
Small World Coffee is familiar to many Princeton students and residents. Siyeon Lee ‘27 studies at Small World almost every day, taking advantage of the Pay with Points partnership between the coffee shop and the University. Her go-to drink? “A light iced matcha to-go,” she said, without hesitation.
Lee is an assistant Opinion editor for the ‘Prince.’
For Lee, Small World is “really Princeton.” The coffee shop is a place where she sees “familiar faces,” and finds a unique community space for students off-campus. She visited Small World for the first time on move-in day.
“It felt like a movie when I walked in,” Lee said. “Kind of ‘Gilmore Girls’ vibes.”
She also notes that the continuous crowd and smaller space at Small World “fosters a communal vibe.”
To Jule, this sense of community is Small World’s mission, with coffee being a “vehicle for bringing people together.”
Mira Eashwaran is a staff Features writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any corrections requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The cost of coffee at Small World Coffee, a Princeton staple, has risen in response to supply shortages in the coffee market, an Instagram post on Feb. 23 said.
“Coffee prices have soared over the last year and are not slated to come down anytime soon,” the post read.
Some items, like drip coffee, single-shot espressos, and single-shot americanos, have risen by $0.25, while others, like the single cappuccino, the single latte, and flat white have risen by $0.50. The forte cappuccino has risen by $0.70, and mocha prices have risen by $1.00.
“I used to come a lot. I would be here every morning,” Megan Santamore ’25 told The Daily Princetonian in an interview. “But now a little less so because I have an espresso machine, and prices have gone up, so I can’t do that.”
Mariana Altomare ’25 told the ‘Prince’ that she views Small World Coffee as “definitely more of a treat.”
Small World allows students to buy coffee with their Paw Points, provided to each undergraduate student on the unlimited meal plan by the University.
Lucy McWeeny ’28 said, “I am consistently aware of how expensive the coffee is. When I go and get these cold foam cold brews, it’s like $7.50, which is a lot of money, so I use Paw Points, which is fantastic. But once I’m out of those, it’s gonna be devastating. And they’re going quite quickly because the coffee is just quite expensive.”
Cate Barry ’27, a frequent Small World consumer, shared, “I just use my points. I don’t care.”
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ Jessica Durrie, co-founder and owner of Small World, shared how the shop will be adapting. She explained that the price changes stemmed from a mismatch between supply and demand on the coffee market, which she attributed to reduced production of coffee beans in Vietnam and Brazil as a result of a significant drought and frost.
“In addition to supply being low, demand has also risen internationally with countries that are traditionally tea drinkers consuming more coffee,” Durrie wrote. “The other significant factor at play here is market speculation with traders driving prices up for financial gain.”
According to the Data Blog of the World Bank Group, the prices of Arabica and Robusta, the two primary coffee beans in the C-Market, rose by 69 and 60 percentage points, respectively, from Jan. 1 to Dec. 1 of 2024. Additionally, in February of this year, prices per pound of coffee beans reached daily highs of $4.24 per day, reaching $4.40 in one day, the highest they have been in 48 years.
“Whether this was an isolated incident or the canary in the coal mine for the effects climate change is having on the global coffee supply is yet to be seen,” Durrie wrote.
McWeeny, also a barista for Princeton Coffee Club, shared that the campus Coffee Clubs haven’t been affected.
“Small World seems to be having some issues with coffee sourcing, which is why they’ve had to raise the prices,” McWeeny said. At Coffee Club, she added, “But that doesn’t seem to be affecting Coffee Clubs, so we’ve been able to keep the prices pretty stable.”
In attempts to restrict the increases in price, Small World will be relying more on local partners and minimizing waste in their coffee-making process.
“This is a time to expand connections and build friendships in the industry. It is also a time to connect with other coffee roasters and share resources,” Durrie wrote. “One of our first employees started a very successful coffeehouse and roasting company in Oakland, CA, and he and I have been in constant contact.”
Additionally, the company will be launching an internal initiative, the Full Cup Project, which will analyze ways to maximize the use of the coffee. The shop will also be looking into purchasing new coffee grinders to help reduce the amount of waste.
Durrie shared that part of the struggle also comes from being a small coffee shop.
“We are … trying our best to buy our lots of coffee at times when the market is not crazy high,” Durrie stated. “We are too small of a company to use financial mechanisms to hedge against the market.”
Small World’s concerns accompany global worries over the state of the international coffee market. Durrie specifically cited how the end of USAID is putting the $5 million Coffee Improvement Plan, intended to address problems in coffee production and farming, in jeopardy.
Ultimately, Durrie wrote, “the major effect of all of this is that prices are going up and more than they’ve ever increased before, certainly more than Small World has seen in its 31 years of business.”
Small World will continue to address these concerns as they put their measures in place to reduce price inflation and maximize their coffee sourcing.
“Coffeehouses have always been a vital part of any community, and we will continue to ensure [Small World] keeps providing just that to Princeton,” Durrie wrote.
Luke Grippo is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including USG, the CPUC, and institutional legacy.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Riley Pan ’28, Sophie O’Connor ’28, and Nora Choi ’28 had been sitting at a table in the window of Small World Coffee Shop at 1:07 p.m. on March 21, chatting about their break, when a car parked less than 10 meters away from the window caught on fire.
During the fire, Witherspoon Street was temporarily closed to all traffic between Nassau Street and Spring Street, and police prevented anyone from walking on the sidewalk in front of the cafe.
“We were just catching up on our breaks, and having a fun gossip sesh, and then Nora saw the smoke, and she was like ‘What is that?’” O’Connor told The Daily Princetonian in the back alley of Small World after they had evacuated.
Pan shared that when the group had been in Small World, “We turned around and there was smoke [outside].” According to O’Connor, they watched as the smoke and fire continued to escalate.
“[The car] was just on fire all of a sudden,” Choi added. As she spoke, sirens began to blare on Witherspoon Street.
Upon noticing the fire, Small World workers sprang into action and began evacuating the building. Five workers helped customers evacuate, directing them to the exit in the back of the building.
Small World workers who were present declined to give a comment.
There had been about 50 people in Small World at the time, including customers and staff.
“I was in Small World — there was lots of smoke [outside],” another student, Abigail Kolbe ’28 said.
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ Captain Matthew Solovay and the Princeton Police Department (PPD) wrote that “responders found a 2007 red Acura, which had been parked in a marked stall on the west side of Witherspoon Street, with heavy smoke and active flames coming from the engine block.”
According to the statement, The Princeton Fire Department, First Aid and Rescue Squad, and Police responded to the call at about 1:10 PM.
Abigail Colby ’28 was studying at Small World when the fire broke out. She had left her bike parked outside of Small World, but was unable to retrieve it because of the sidewalk closure.
“I had to get my bike for class,” Colby, who had class at 1:30 p.m., said to the ‘Prince.’
After extinguishing the fire, the vehicle was towed from the scene. The Princeton Fire Marshal’s Office will be conducting further investigation.
Earlier this month, a similar incident occurred on Nassau Street. On March 12, Princeton police were alerted of a vehicle on fire in the parking lot of a business in the 200 block of Nassau Street, according to a press release from the PPD on March 18.
“Patrols attempted to extinguish the fire, however, it continued to grow in size and intensity,” the release stated. “The Princeton Fire Department responded to the location and was able to extinguish the blaze … The vehicle involved, a 2010 Ford Ranger, was heavily damaged by the fire and towed from the scene.”
No injuries were reported to have occurred from either incident.
Luke Grippo is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including Undergraduate Student Government, the Council of the Princeton University Community, and institutional legacy.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Asian American Students Association (AASA), Black Student Union (BSU), Center for Jewish Life (CJL), Princeton African Students Association (PASA), and Princeton Latin American Student Association (PLASA) joined together on Oct. 23 for a voter education event, held just two weeks prior to Election Day. APIAVote, a non-partisan, national voter engagement non-profit for Asian American and Pacific Islanders, funded the event.
“CHOMP the Vote” drew in participants with a diverse offering of foods brought by the different affinity groups including SC House, Dvaraka, and Five and Loaves African Restaurant.
“The dinner allowed for discussion on voting access and political issues,” wrote Black Student Union (BSU) vice president Mary Sowell ’26 to The Daily Princetonian. “These conversations are crucial and specifically even more crucial to hear from many diverse groups of people and diverse lived experiences.”
Vinayak Menon ’27, the Policy and Service Chair for AASA, spearheaded the event, helping bring the student affinity groups together. He told the ‘Prince’ in an interview that he first had the idea for “CHOMP the Vote” months ago, over the summer.
“I really wanted there to be a multicultural event on campus,” Menon explained. “And I really wanted to do something on a larger scale to get people out to vote.”
Other leaders who helped to organize the dinnertime discussion underscored these related goals, noting the importance of diversity in voter education programming as one of the event's strengths.
“I was mainly impressed with the diverse audience that the event was able to offer,” Sewell wrote. “As VP of an affinity group, it can be hard to garner different audiences for such a diverse issue like the presidential campaign.”
About 30 minutes in, Menon started a presentation designed to help people understand how they can vote. The first part of the presentation concerned voting for people registered in New Jersey. Menon also explained how to vote early and on Election Day for people registered in New Jersey.
For those registered in a state other than New Jersey, Menon went over how they can either go home and vote in their home state, or apply for an absentee ballot. Menon also stressed the importance of voting early to avoid issues with processing times at Frist Campus Center.
“The event gave insight and specific instruction on how to vote no matter what U.S. state you are from,” Sowell wrote. “It was very detailed and informative.”
Menon pointed to college students as a demographic that have historically had low voter turnout to explain the importance of the event.
“I think a big reason is that there is a lot of information out there, but it’s complex, and it’s difficult as an individual student to figure out how to kind of parse through this,” he said. “Minority communities, especially, have faced a lot of barriers in terms of voting.”
In order to pull off the event, Menon reached out to APIAVote for help. After becoming a campus ambassador for the non-profit, Menon and AASA received enough funding to allow the collaborating groups to cater their own food.
“This is really important, because as a student organization, it’s really hard to do events like this and get buy-in,” Menon said. “And [funding from APIAVote] really helped us out a lot.”
To follow up on “CHOMP the Vote,” AASA plans to hold tabling events in Frist. At the pop-up tables, people will be able to access the same information from “CHOMP the Vote.”
Doug Schwartz is a Sports contributor and a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.While many students returned home to spend Thanksgiving with family, those who stayed on campus over break — due to travel distance, concerns over productivity, and other reasons — celebrated with a different type of community.
Daniel Wang ’26 was one of the students who opted to stay on-campus for Thanksgiving instead of traveling back home to China. For lunch on Thursday, Wang enjoyed a traditional Thanksgiving meal at the Whitman dining hall — the only dining hall that was open during break.
“It made me feel like I’m home. The food was excellent, the ambiance was amazing,” Wang said. “We’ve got a saxophone player, tables lined with linens, the turkey is very tender, and the dessert and apple cider were all amazing.”
After his Thanksgiving lunch, Wang took a boxed to-go dinner from Whitman, which closed for the evening.
“The last staff members, probably me and the other manager, [got] out of here at around 2:30, so it [gave] us plenty of time to go home and have dinner with our families,” said Dante Ingato, the Culinary Hospitality Manager at Whitman.
Ingato says he is proud of the other staff members’ work in making campus feel warm for those staying during Thanksgiving.
“It’s nice to still make people feel like they’re at home, and if it’s not a part of their personal celebrations or heritage to celebrate Thanksgiving, it’s just another way to show them how Americans do it,” he said.
Emily Zhou ’27 also attended the Thanksgiving feast for lunch. She’s from upstate New York, and she decided to stay on campus because “travel can be kind of a hassle recently.”
For Thanksgiving dinner, she ate with friends at SC House, a Sichuan restaurant on Nassau Street.
“I just prefer my cultural food,” she said.
While some schools like Yale started break on Monday, Nov. 20, Princeton’s Thanksgiving recess did not officially begin until Wednesday, Nov. 22 — a day before the holiday. Zhou says if she had Monday and Tuesday off, she would have gone back home.
“It would help us avoid peak travel times,” Zhou said.
In addition to the Whitman dining hall’s Thanksgiving meals, some residential colleges organized their own activities on Thursday. For example, there were dinners held on Thursday night at the Yeh, Whitman, and Rockefeller Head of College’s Houses. According to Whitman's Head of College Claire Gmachl, this event began as a student initiative in 2019 and has since become an annual tradition.
“It’s just one of many offerings on campus over the break,” Gmachl wrote in an email to the ‘Prince.’ “It seems that students on campus during the holidays knew how to form community with each other; and I am proud of all the student leaders (formal and informal) who contribute to this community.”
Some of these students were able to get University support to create this community. Kriti Garg ’26, for example, received funding from the Davis International Center to host a ‘Friendsgiving’ dinner. Her event was specifically directed toward fellow international students, many of whom stayed on campus due to long and expensive travel.
“I felt really blessed that in my first year as an international student here, I had a lot of international friends, and breaks never felt lonely. I really wanted to create a meaningful experience for the international community on campus during Thanksgiving,” Garg said. “We would cook like a family, eat like a family and laugh like a family.”
Garg is a former staff Audience creator for the ‘Prince.’
With nearly 20 people and three and a half hours in the kitchen, Garg’s dinner featured a variety of dishes — including some with an international twist — such as butter paneer, BBQ cauliflower wings, and homemade Swiss rolls.
“At the end of the meal, we went around the table and talked about what we were thankful for, and a few people got emotional just feeling the love of a family after so long,” Garg said. “It was a wonderful night of games, laughter, and food — and the eventual food coma that rolls around in the spirit of the holiday.”
Maya Chu is a contributing Features writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any correction requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Over 500 students filled the Frist A-level as tables overflowed with food ranging from samosas to pad thai to baklavas, while on the 100-level, more than a dozen cultural booths lined the room.
The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Social Committee hosted its inaugural TigerTies event at the Frist Student Center on Nov. 16, aiming to showcase the diversity of cultural and international connections on campus. Hosted in collaboration with the Office of the Vice President for Campus Life, the Carl A. Fields Center for Equality and Cultural Understanding, and the Davis International Center, the event included over 30 student group booths and live performances as well as culturally inspired cuisine catered by 13 local restaurants.
“We wanted to create an event that was as inclusive and as uplifting as possible,” USG Executive Secretary Karen Villanueva ’27, told The Daily Princetonian. “Everyone should hopefully walk away from tonight learning something new about someone else’s culture or international community.”
USG Social Chair Enzo Kho ’26 told the ‘Prince’ that this event was inspired by an open town hall meeting in the spring where students spoke about the lack of international event programming to bring together different campus student groups. Attendees emphasized the celebration of the community’s rich multiculturalism as a standout feature of the event.
“I think it’s important to participate not only to express my culture, but also to show younger [students] the importance of maintaining cultural celebration,” Tomoka Ohmori ’27, a member of the Japanese Student Association (JSA), told the ‘Prince.’
Assistant Director for International Programs at the Davis Center Mariyah Salem told the ‘Prince,’ “There was a lot of excitement, and also a lot of pride.“
“When I went table to table, students were so excited to show their cultural heritage and the groups that they’re part of — a lot of smiling faces, chit-chat, and laughter, which is great to see on campus,” she added.
International food, catered from restaurants representing several nationalities around the area, was also a highlight for many. Offerings included mapo tofu and chongqing chicken from SC House, bubble tea from MTea, and falafels, baklava, and mucver from Efes Grill.
“We really just wanted everybody to see themselves within this event,” said Reed Marthers ’27, a member of the USG Social Committee.
Attendee Marvel Roth ’28 added that “there were some things that I definitely haven’t been able to eat on campus that I either missed from home or just have never tried before.”
“It was really great to have such a good variety,” she said.
Throughout the night, attendees also enjoyed cultural student group performances from Mariachi Los Tigres de Princeton, KoKo Pops, TigerChunes, and Triple 8.
“I think the mariachi band was a highlight for me,” Roth said. “I listened to a lot of it where I’m from, and it was really nice to hear it here.”
Student-run booths also exposed students to the breadth of Princeton’s affinity groups.
“I really appreciate that there are more events like this that expose the student body to clubs and different student organizations that aren’t at the beginning of the year,” Melanie Santacruz ’25, a member of the Princeton Latin American Student Association, said. “It’s just a really nice event that comes at a time of year when some students are finally settled in.”
A first-of-its-kind in recent years, USG and other co-hosting organizations hope to continue TigerTies in future years, making it an annual event.
“​​We plan on asking for people’s feedback on what they think we can improve upon, and we’ll definitely take that into consideration,” Hassan Khan ’27, an organizer, said. “But so far, I think it’s been amazing.”
Khan is a contributing Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Salem expressed hopes to expand TigerTies to include other campus communities such as the graduate school and the staff, noting that “there’s probably cultures and countries on the graduate side that aren’t here.”
“I could see this being more of a full community event as well, but this has been an amazing start today.”
Devon Rudolph is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Sena Chang is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Early Saturday morning, the School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA) fountain was vandalized, with red dye unloaded in the fountain water and spray paint that reads "Pretty Town Bloody Gown" on Robertson Hall. The Daily Princetonian was first made aware of the incident around 5:20 a.m.
A spokesperson for Princeton Israeli Apartheid Divest (PIAD) told the ‘Prince’ that “as far as [they] know the action was undertaken by an autonomous collective pressuring the University to divest from Israel.” The spokesperson continued that PIAD was not the coordinator of the vandalism, but “[they] don't discourage or police actions undertaken in solidarity with Palestine.”
Yesterday, Princeton Israeli Apartheid Divest (PIAD) posted a series of graphics to Twitter, including one that stated, “DIVERSITY OF TACTICS WELCOME.” The subtitle of the poster further stated that “Any action, any disruption, any escalation” was encouraged.
PIAD has been active at Reunions thus far, with various students meeting with the CPUC and organizing rallies.
Last December, two eating clubs and a brick wall near Prospect Street were vandalized with pro-Palestine and anti-Israel messages, with graffiti reading “Free Gaza” and “Fuck Israel.”
A student associated with the Daily Princetonian said that PSAFE questioned them about the incident at around 8 a.m.
The University was not able to provide comment at time of publication.
This story is breaking and will be updated as more information becomes available.
Christopher Bao is an assistant News editor and the accessibility director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Princeton, N.J. and typically covers town politics and life.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Senate convened for its fourth event of the spring semester on Sunday, March 2 in Robertson Hall, Bowl 016 to address a range of topics, including the 50th USG anniversary, Project Board updates, and proposed election rule changes. They also engaged in a detailed discussion on diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) with University administrators.
USG President Enzo Kho ’26 opened the meeting with a series of general updates. He announced that a location had been secured for the USG during Reunions, to be revealed later in the month. Unlike previous meetings, he chose not to reference the USG archives. Kho also underscored the importance of upcoming progress reports, reminding senators to prepare for a mid-March presentation that will delve into their respective initiatives.
Kho emphasized the potential for increased collaboration and improved communication strategies. “The communications team and I have been in content meetings over the past week,” said Kho. “We are continuing to think about how we go about improving our communication so that people are aware of the work that we are doing.”
Looking ahead, Kho outlined several key upcoming events, including a dinner with Vice President for Campus Life Rochelle Calhoun and committee chair presentations slated for March 23. He also mentioned upcoming meetings with University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83, highlighting ongoing dialogue between USG and University leadership.
The Senate then proceeded to a second vote on a constitutional amendment concerning the attendance policy, which had been discussed last meeting. The amendment successfully passed, officially amending the USG constitution to implement a more flexible attendance policy.
Project Board co-chairs Joanna Tafolla ’26 and Ava Seigel ’26 presented on USG’s funding process for student groups, including a pre-check approval process for groups seeking under $750, freeing up time for in-depth discussions with larger initiatives. They said that around $200,000 of funding had been requested over the course of the semester so far.
Seigel is a former assistant Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Afterwards, Chief Elections Manager Alex Sorgini ’26 introduced a series of proposed changes to election rules, including eliminating a prohibition on excessive petitioning, reducing signature requirements for certain positions, and simplifying the expenditure report process. He also proposed a significant reduction in penalties for late expenditure report submissions, addressing concerns about the severity of current penalties.
The Senate then held a discussion on diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) with administrators Andy Cofino and Shawn Maxam. Cofino is Assistant Vice President for Diversity, Belonging and Well-being in the Office of the Vice President for Campus Life, and Maxam is Associate Provost for Institutional Diversity and Inclusion. In lieu of speaking by the means of a formal presentation, Cofino and Maxam opted for a more open discussion-based format.
"I think they’re [diversity, equity, and inclusion] incredibly important values,” commented Maxam. “And so, I would say you are still allowed to have diversity equity inclusion chairs who are still able to use these words … it’s more important than ever that we talk about why these concepts are important to us as a Princeton community, and how they ensure that we’re able to do the important, groundbreaking teaching, learning and research on our campus.”
Upon being questioned on whether the University is refraining from using the term “equity,” Maxam noted that the University has a vice provost for institutional equity and diversity.
“I’m not sure that the omission of the word itself is always hyper-intentional. It might just be shorthand, but writ large, broadly, all of the principles and values sort of apply,” he said.
The meeting concluded a renewed invitation to contact USG leadership with any questions or concerns. There was no executive session on this occasion.
USG Meetings are open for all students to attend and are held on Sundays from 5–6 p.m. in Robertson Hall 016.
Andrew Arthur is a staff News writer from London, England and typically covers USG, CPUC, Princeton's institutional legacy, and administrative matters.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: A previous version of this article stated that Kho announced that a location was secured for the 50th anniversary reunion of the USG. In fact, the location he referred to is for Reunions but not for the 50th anniversary of USG. The 'Prince' regrets this error.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
At 7:45 a.m. this morning, the Princeton Students Against Major Unacceptable Political Issues (PSAMUPI) released via social media that their protest scheduled for 4:30 p.m. today outside Robertson Hall was postponed due to poor weather conditions.
Their Instagram post read, “On account of low-speed winds and 40 percent chance of rain forecasted for this afternoon, we will no longer be congregating around the SPIA fountain. We hope for better protesting weather later in the month. Please stay tuned for new dates.”
This news upset some students who were passionate about the protest.
Avid environmentalist and environmental and evolutionary biology (EEB) concentrator Sarah Debrine ’26 expresses frustration about the postponement, saying it “reflects not only the failure to embrace the elements but also the poor prioritization of political issues that runs rife on Princeton’s campus.”
She continued, “The average Princeton student can take a chemistry test or finish a politics paper during an earthquake, but they can’t be bothered to stand outside with their cardboard signs in some rain to advocate for human rights?”
After the interview, Debrine asked the Daily PrintsAnything reporter if we thought she could put “protest” on her resume. We answered it would be worse if she didn’t.
Other students expressed their relief and gratefulness for the extra time in their days to catch up on their problem sets and reading assignments after the protest’s rescheduling.
PSAMUPI’s Vice President and self-confessed procrastinator Walter Kaizett ’25 defended the organization’s decision to reschedule the event. “These issues will still need us in a week. We can do it later. And, instead, do the studying we should have started two weeks ago now.”
PSAMUPI President and Psychology major Lauren Szan ’25 chalks the protest’s deferral up to an exercise of collective self-care. “The truth is, no one likes soggy socks. And even activists have to set boundaries.”
“Besides,” Szan added, “we used washable markers on most of our posters. It would be a pastel disaster. We would send the wrong message.”
The ‘Prints’ also sat down with women’s rights advocate and varsity rower Tabitha Joan ’24 after her daily two-hour Women’s Lightweight Rowing practice on Lake Carnegie, who shared Debrine’s sentiments.
“They postponed the protest for rain?” Joan shivered, shifting her body weight from foot to foot. Water could be heard sloshing around in her sneakers. “We were out there today on a freaking lake. In rowboats.”
“If your social justice mobilization can be stopped by subpar weather,” she continued, wringing water out of her bright orange Dri-FIT t-shirt, “I think you’ve gotta seriously reexamine your relationship with pain and your ability to live through it based on what is on the line.”
‘Prints’ reporters confirm that Joan appeared to be both soaking wet and super jealous.
Mya Koffie is an Associate Humor Editor and rower on the Princeton Women’s Lightweight Crew Team. She is getting way too used to wet socks and waiting patiently for May to bring flowers, already. You can reach her at mya.koffie@princeton.edu.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.Princeton graduate students are becoming increasingly worried about internships, jobs, and funding as uncertainty grows among government and federally supported organizations.
These worries follow a slew of executive orders which have paused federal funding, froze civil service hiring, and slashed funding from the National Institute of Health, which supported University researchers. In conversations with The Daily Princetonian, students and faculty members discussed a wide range of potential impacts on people working and interning in public service.
Patrick McCabe GS, a first-year Master of Public Administration (MPA) student who worked in the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) before coming to Princeton, expressed worries about the future of public service workers. The Trump administration has drastically slashed the agency’s workforce and funding over the past several weeks.
“I think there are people who really want to be doing this work, who want to either be working in government or who want to work with a lot of organizations that were receiving funding to keep doing their work, and this will definitely have an impact on people who saw their futures working in public service,” he said.
Sylvia Skerry GS, a second-year MPA student, shared concerns regarding the current employment atmosphere in Washington, D.C. with the ‘Prince.’
“Some of the concerns that have come up … that people who are getting fired from the federal government, or who were just laid off as part of the transition, are going to be descending on to the liberal cities of the United States and filling up … job vacancies,” Skerry told the ‘Prince.’ “We’re worried about a crowded job market with all of the federal layoffs and people altering their paths away from D.C.”
School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA) Professor Ali Nouri GS ’06, who was Deputy Assistant to former President Joe Biden and Deputy Director of the White House Office of Legislative Affairs, shared with the ‘Prince’ that one of the most important things for students during this time is to be flexible and adaptable in their career search than what’s been need in the past.
“There is a very challenging environment where we’re seeing many of these very agencies that our students thought they were going to be working in being diminished and even dismantled,” Nouri added. “If the administration continues to pursue its plans and its current actions, then it’s really important to look elsewhere.”
Many of the Princeton students affected are in SPIA. David Mayorga, Associate Dean for Public Affairs and Communications, shared in an interview with the ‘Prince’ that SPIA will be supporting its students with career advising, networking opportunities, and panel events aimed at easing any trepidation.
“We are putting together specific paper resources through our online career hub, which is called SPIA Connect, which is available to our graduate students,” Mayorga explained. “It gives them tailored advising, appointments, workshops they can attend, internship opportunities, and all that good stuff.”
“We are actively working with students who have lost opportunities to help them navigate their next steps. Public service takes many forms — whether in think tanks, state and local government, non-governmental organizations, nonprofits, advocacy organizations, foundations, or even the private sector through government partnerships,” Barbara Hampton, Director of Graduate Career Development for SPIA, said.
Administrators are also working to broaden in-person networking opportunities to bridge alumni with students who “have recently lost their jobs or have been thrust into a transition because of the changes in the federal government,” Mayorga said.
The department is also continuing the Dean’s Leadership Series, bringing in alumni who are involved in public service to discuss non-federal opportunities. Some speakers invited include Robert Doar ’83, president of the American Enterprise Institute, and Michael Froman ’85, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, who spoke on Feb. 12 and March 5, respectively.
“You have to adjust and go where the opportunities are, and sometimes that means developing new expertise and exploring new areas,” Nouri explained.
Luke Grippo is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including Undergraduate Student Government, the Council of the Princeton University Community, and institutional legacy.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA) hosted its second annual “Undergraduate Policy Day in Washington” trip to its Washington headquarters on Sept. 27 — the latest in an informal push against the Princeton-to-private-sector pipeline. Since the start of the semester, SPIA has held a series of events and programs promoting careers in public service.
Princeton, which boasts the informal motto of “In the Nation’s Service and the Service of Humanity,” has long emphasized public service in its mission. For example, SPIA was first established in 1930, and it has produced notable alumni in government and public service careers, such as Ted Cruz ’92 and Ralph Nader ’55. However, some in recent years have argued that the University has strayed from its aims. According to The Daily Princetonian 2024 Senior Survey, just a third of graduates agreed with the question: “Would you characterize your postgraduate plans as ‘in the nation’s service and the service of humanity?’”
“Broadly speaking, I would say there was a push for public service,” said Aishwarya Swamidurai ’26, one of the September trip attendees, in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ Student participants reported that alumni actively encouraged SPIA students to enter public service jobs and stressed the fulfilling nature of careers in the field.
“One of the speakers mentioned that the work they do in public service is much more fun than consulting,” she added.
However, Swamidurai described comments placing greater value in working for the public sector over private sector jobs as “highly individualized,” noting that they reflected personal opinions rather than a formal stance on the part of the SPIA department.
The SPIA Public Service Career Day, held on Oct. 25, also placed a strong emphasis on public service over careers in the private sector.
“You may wonder sometimes whether your work is actually having an impact on making the world better,” said New Jersey State Senator Raj Mukherji GS ’24, a keynote speaker for the Career Day event. “In public service, you won’t be on the sidelines. Your work, directly or indirectly, will be impactful on people’s daily lives.”
“There’s no greater calling than using your talents for the benefit of others,” continued Mukherji. “It will make up for better pay [available for] private sector jobs.”
Events such as the Washington trip and Public Service Career Day are not SPIA’s first effort to convince students to pursue public service. “SPIA in New Jersey” is another program designed to bolster student participation and present viable career paths in public service. The program focuses on community service, engagement, and public policy research in the state of New Jersey through partnering with faculty members, advocacy groups, and other local organizations.
“The ‘SPIA in New Jersey’ program is about a year and a half old … [and it was] launched in response to the enthusiasm expressed not only by graduate students, but also undergrads that wanted their public policy education to prepare them for public service and public engagement,” commented Professor Anastasia R. Mann, who serves as the founding director of the initiative.
Mann stressed that its purpose is “to fulfill [Princeton’s] mission of service to the nation. Jersey is … our little slice of the nation.”
“In the aftermath of Jan. 6, many of us understood how fragile democracy is and how to have a better sense of what it takes to protect it,” she added. “In SPIA, a lot of people are excited about that work, and those are the people I work with, the students who take my classes.”
Mann added that consulting was still a viable career path that she does not discourage students from entering, saying, “Some of my best students have gone into consulting, but that doesn’t mean I love them any less for it.”
Professor Udi Ofer, founding director of the SPIA’s Policy Advocacy Clinic, expressed excitement over the department’s increased funding towards more programs oriented towards public service.
“I think it’s all about giving students choices. Our job is to make students informed … It’s my job to show students what a life could look like if they chose a similar career path as a lawyer or as a policy strategist,” he said.
However, the SPIA department emphasized that the purpose of programs like “SPIA in D.C.” and “SPIA in N.J.” is not to devalue consulting, but instead present more public service opportunities to SPIA students to provide a broader choice of careers.
“There is no attempt to guide students away from [consulting] jobs,” said Senior Associate Dean Paul Lipton. “Our objective as an undergraduate program is to give students a much broader sense of what is possible and ways to get there.”
“Anyone who believes that going into the private sector is a harm is misunderstanding and misrepresenting what those jobs do for anybody, whether students or the constituents they serve,” continued Lipton. “It is certainly not our perspective that these jobs are harmful or undesirable.”
According to Lipton, SPIA hopes to encourage students who are passionate about public policy and service, but either lack information or are considering more profit-oriented careers.
Lipton encouraged students in doubt to “come right to us … we have a wonderful and long list of alums who are more than willing and happy to discuss career opportunities in a variety of fields.”
“A lot of students come to SPIA because they want to save the world, and that is a great instinct to have, and we want to nurture that,” said Ofer.
“Different people have different life circumstances and they have to make tough decisions,” Ofer added. “It’s our job at SPIA to make sure they have all the information they need … and support them in whatever option they choose.”
Eojin Park is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Princeton School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA) has changed its requirements for junior independent work, reducing the number of required junior papers (JP) from two to one for SPIA majors in the Class of 2026 and beyond. Now juniors will work on one JP over the entire academic year in two mandatory research seminars.
The change was first announced in 2022 following faculty deliberation, but this is the first year that SPIA’s junior class will experience the new JP format.
In previous years, SPIA juniors were required to complete two junior papers to fulfill their independent work requirement: one in a non-credit-bearing policy task force and another in a credit-bearing research seminar.
The independent work changes come as SPIA changed distribution requirements for students following the Class of 2025. The department got rid of its requirement for students to take one foreign language course beyond the University requirement. SPIA also got rid of its science policy class requirement and now requires six electives for students instead of the original four. The six electives are broken into two categories: disciplinary breadth and intellectual depth.
According to SPIA Senior Associate Dean for Academic Administration Paul Lipton, the guidelines for the paper and its incorporation into SPIA’s research seminar will remain unchanged.
The Policy Task Force remains a requirement for SPIA majors, although now it is credit bearing. Analysis produced in the course will no longer be a component of the JP.
As written on the SPIA website, the new junior independent work requirement is fulfilled through completing “a year-long paper in connection with a non-credit bearing fall Introduction to Research Design (SPI 299) and a credit-bearing spring Research Seminar (SPI 300).” While SPI 299 is a non-credit course designed to introduce students to the research process, the credit-bearing SPI 300 course culminates with the writing of a topical JP.
In an interview with The Daily Princetonian, Lipton explained that the change came from a desire in the department to better prepare SPIA students for independent work. “The way the major was set up, students did their two years at Princeton, then they were thrown into one of our junior seminars.”
To remedy this problem, the department convened a committee. “Through a formal review of the undergraduate major, the committee concluded that by scaffolding the many elements of research design through a sequence of courses (SPI 298, 299, 300), the program would provide stronger preparation for independent work,” Lipton explained.
Lipton explained that prospective majors often take SPI 298: Introduction to Public Policy — Authority, Incentive, Persuasion in the fall semester of their sophomore year. While not included in the JP progression, it was designed to better serve the courses that contribute to the linear progression towards the JP.
Lipton further shared that SPIA faculty has spent two years reviewing the SPIA undergraduate major, and after extensive interviews with faculty, students, and alumni focus groups, conducted a full SPIA faculty vote on the matter.
The SPIA website was updated to reflect the new policy in 2022, adding a section to the site that explained the independent work requirement changes for the Class of 2026 and beyond. Furthermore, Lipton shared that “all public information sessions for prospective students and majors, and written material reflected this change.”
SPIA junior Samuel Kligman ’26 told the ‘Prince’ that the department’s communication was “pretty clear.” He recalled an information session explaining the junior paper requirements in the spring of 2024, when the Class of 2026 was declaring majors, as well as another information session this semester.
“There’s a junior and senior independent work document that kind of guides you through the requirements. I think I’m gonna be adequately prepared,” Kligman said.
SPIA major Vasant Patel ’26 also said he felt that the SPIA department’s communication was sufficient, sharing that he discovered the changes to the independent work by looking into the SPIA website spring semester of his sophomore year. Patel found that these changes were expanded upon more in his junior orientation as well as in his research seminar.
However, the changes have resulted in some uncertainty among students largely regarding the SPI299 course and its non-credit bearing status. While presented to students as a non-credit bearing seminar, students were informed after enrollment that their final grade in SPI 299 would be 30 percent of their JP grade, giving it stakes that SPIA students did not originally anticipate.
“SPI 299 is in this weird middle ground where it counts for credit, but it doesn’t count for credit … I wish they would have made a choice on that, rather than kind of leave us in this weird, you know, it’s non credit bearing, but there is some credit attached to it middle ground” Kligman said.
Neither the SPIA website nor the SPIA JP informational packet mentions this grading caveat. It can only be accessed through the syllabus for SPI 299.
While discussing this particular grading detail, Dean Lipton mentioned that the JP is structured to be a yearlong piece of work, involving both courses. He described the format as “obscure” and expressed a potential for the university to have both SPIA JP seminars count for credit in the future.
Patel echoed this confusion, saying there is inevitable confusion among juniors over their specific requirements and what will count towards their independent work. He did, however, share that SPIA has done a good job establishing spaces for students to have these questions answered and receive support during the changes.
The SPIA department sent an email Wednesday to all SPIA juniors, further outlining the structure of the SPI 299 class and asking for students’ feedback on the course. The survey asked students if “the content of the seminar was thus far new” to them, if they saw a connection between SPI 298 and 299, and if they felt SPI 299 would prepare them for their JP.
Despite confusion, SPIA students remain optimistic. In Kligman’s words, “Regardless of whatever bureaucratic politics and changes are going on at the moment, it’s a great department, great professors, and I couldn’t be happier.”
Patel appreciates the changes saying that “the reworking of [the junior independent work] for me is that there’s more of a focus on helping us understand research elements, research design, research methods, and stuff like that.”
Meghana Veldhuis is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’ She is from Bergen County, N.J. and typically covers faculty and graduate students.
Isabelle Roberts is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Sophie Brissett is a contributing News writer and contributing Newsletter writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Despite shifting concerns over how the Trump administration may affect trips both internationally and domestically, School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA)-sponsored travel will continue as normal.
During Wintersession, many students traveled to El Salvador and Cuba. In December, several policy task forces also traveled to New York City, Albany, and Washington D.C. to present their policy recommendations to partners.
Task forces bring together small groups of students to conduct analyses of public policy issues for clients, who are often public officials or experts in the not-for-profit sector. These task forces often take students beyond Princeton’s campus for fieldwork.
Alexa Marsh ’25, who was on the Cuba Wintersession trip, highlighted the social context obtained through the trips.
“I really appreciate that SPIA does create these opportunities for students,” Marsh commented. She also studied abroad last Spring in Cape Town, South Africa, through the department’s international policy task force. “It’s nice to have a balance of both the academic side — engaging with these lectures and people who study and research these things — and then also talking to local people and hearing about their real experiences.”
In September 2024, Vivian Bui ’26 joined the inaugural AI policy task force for SPIA, led by Ali Nouri, a deputy assistant to former President Joe Biden. Four months later, she and her classmates met with Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) to present their policy recommendations on AI and national security during a day of student-led briefings on Capitol Hill, at the White House, and at the Department of Energy.
“Despite it being a requirement for my major, it was extremely formative and enriching to go on that trip because I got to develop an out-of-classroom experience where I am not just researching and presenting policy recommendations to a blank void, but I was able to interact with professionals in the policy word and receive feedback on a semester-long project,” Bui wrote to The Daily Princetonian.
Sol Choi ’26 was on another one of the policy task force trips to Washington, D.C. In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ Choi shared that “It was an incredible experience touring the inside of the White House, World Bank, and the Hill with SPIA alum. Listening to their career advice and their paths after Princeton was so gratifying.”
The Trump administration’s rhetoric on immigration and foreign students, however, has sparked concern among SPIA students about the future viability of these trips.
“I do think, unfortunately, that the unpredictability of everything under his administration will potentially lead to difficulties with continuing the trips, or maybe just extra hurdles and obstacles and things that need to be checked off of lists to make sure everything runs okay and smoothly,” Marsh said.
She recalled that during the third day of her Wintersession trip to Cuba, Biden eased sanctions on Cuba through executive action, only for Trump to reinstate the embargo immediately after taking office.
“It’s a bit of a tense situation, and I do think that might have an impact,” Marsh said.
Audrey Chau ’25, an international student from Vietnam, agreed that the actions of the Trump administration may make international trips more difficult to plan.
“I think international groups could be really hard logistic-wise. Thinking about the new administration, and what that means for immigration … Now, very few people know for sure what’s gonna happen,” Chau said. “I don’t think it would be viable logistically.”
These concerns follow new immigration policies from the Trump administration that threaten the ease of immigration into the U.S.
However, Choi added, “SPIA has the flexibility to adjust to the multiple challenges established by the Trump administration.”
As of Feb. 13, SPIA has not canceled any trips due to the new administration. SPIA Associate Dean Paul Lipton noted that a trip to Taiwan scheduled for spring break was called off because only four enrolled students were able to participate. According to Lipton, international trips will not be substituted with national or local alternatives.
Bui told the ‘Prince’ that SPIA trips remain accessible thanks to an increase in “Policy Days,” which introduce students with policymakers and alums in D.C.
“Access to trips through the department dramatically increased upon becoming an upperclassman. In September, SPIA invited juniors to take part in an Undergraduate Policy Day in D.C. to meet with policymakers and alums,” Bui said.
Lipton told the ‘Prince’ that “SPIA majors studying abroad this semester in Cape Town, South Africa, are traveling to Botswana during their mid-semester break to conduct field research.”
“Our trips are but a small part of being a SPIA major,” Lipton said.
Sena Chang is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince’ from Tokyo, Japan. She typically covers campus and community activism, the state of higher education, and alumni news.
Luke Grippo is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including USG, the CPUC, and institutional legacy.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP) organized a rally on Cannon Green to disrupt the second annual Community Care Day (CCD), a day that promotes well-being on campus, on Friday.
Around 60 protesters gathered in East Pyne Courtyard at 5 p.m. before moving to Cannon Green — an area of campus where organized protest is now explicitly prohibited. Despite new signage this semester on Cannon Green that reads, “This space is reserved for officially sanctioned University events and may not be used for other organized activities without permission,” the demonstration was able to continue as planned.
“Thank you all for coming to our disruption of Community Care Day, which is glossing over the fact that there is no mental health while your school is invested in genocide,” one speaker said. Protesters distributed signs with messages such as “Princeton divest from genocide” and “Please be advised Princeton is funding genocide.”
Several prominent University administrators were present at the scene when the protest erupted, including University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83, Assistant Vice President for Public Safety Kenneth Strother, and Vice President for Communication, and Government Affairs Gadi Dechter.
CCD, hosted by The Office of the Vice President for Campus Life, offers a “range of fun and relaxing activities throughout the day” including yoga, lawn games, and watercolor painting. The activities lasted from 8 a.m. through 7 p.m.
The Friday rally fell during SJP’s “Week of Rage” from Oct. 21 to Oct. 27. They held events throughout the week, including a student Palestine advocacy panel on Oct. 23 and a Women of the Global Indigenous panel hosted by Natives at Princeton on Oct. 21. On Friday, SJP held Jumu’ah — a Friday communal prayer service — for Gaza ahead of the rally.
After gathering by East Pyne, the protesters then moved to Cannon Green, where the culminating event of CCD, called “Community Gathering,” was taking place. Over 100 students gathered in line at food trucks from local vendors like Jammin’ Crepes and Nomad Pizza while “It’s the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown” played on a screen mounted on the lawn. President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 was present for parts of the event.
While on the lawn, protestors recited chants like “Community care means our camp on Cannon Green,” “If you care about mental health, don’t fund bombs with your wealth,” and “Cannon Green is where we stand, divestment is our demand.”
The event’s DJ, set up in one corner of the lawn, raised the volume of the music higher in response, making it impossible to hear the chanting. Most bystanders ignored the protest, staying in line for food and continuing to watch the Charlie Brown movie on display. Some protesters tried to overcome the noise with megaphones, while others banged makeshift drums made of plastic buckets. The Daily Princetonian observed minimal presence from Public Safety (PSAFE) around the lawn. At one point, protesters briefly sat on the lawn and continued their chants.
Onlooking student Hari Iyer GS shared with the ‘Prince’ that he supported the right of the protestors to gather there. “I think protesting is great, and I think activism is a very important part of civic life,” he said.
A non-student bystander who identified himself as a Princeton community member, Tony Smith, echoed this sentiment telling the ‘Prince,’ “I am disappointed in the administration because this is supposed to be about community care and mental health and wellbeing, and it is one hundred percent ignorant and disrespectful and disgraceful and annoying that for so long people have been asking the University — not just for the past year but for over a decade — to not give money to people who are killing children.”
The protesters then moved in front of Nassau Hall, where they were joined by more PSAFE officers, as well as free speech coordinators and several members of the University administration. At one point, University staff members intervened in an argument between a pro-Israel community member and multiple protesters.
This rally is at least the third pro-Palestine rally held in Princeton this semester. These rallies, smaller than those related to the “Gaza Solidarity Encampment” this past spring, have generally continued uninterrupted despite the tightening of protest regulations this fall.
Isabella Dail is a staff News writer and head editor for The Prospect for the ‘Prince.’
Sophie Brissett is a contributing News writer and contributing Newsletter writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Princeton tradition and a political protest clashed on Friday, April 19, as pro-Palestine demonstrators walked near the Class of 2026 Declaration Day celebration, where recently-declared students in black and orange sweaters posed with department banners behind the iconic Nassau Hall. Some paused amid the protest, while others continued taking photographs with protesters in the background.
The demonstration, which ran for over an hour and a half, was a show of support for the “Gaza Solidarity Encampment” at Columbia University, where students set up tents beginning Wednesday morning on the campus’ center lawn to demand Columbia divest from companies tied to Israel. On Thursday, Columbia President Minouche Shafik authorized arrests and suspensions of over 100 protesters at the encampment. Solidarity demonstrations, including similar encampments at Yale and the University of Michigan, have unfurled at colleges across the country since. Nearly 50 Yale students were arrested early in the morning of Monday, April 22.
Princeton’s demonstration began in front of Nassau Hall at 2:30 p.m. the day following the arrests at Columbia. About 100 students and community members gathered, reiterating calls for the University to divest its endowment from companies associated with the Israeli military.
Organizers also passed around flyers with QR codes for a petition addressed to the Columbia president, deans, and trustees, and for the Barnard-Columbia Abolition Collective Venmo account.
Nipuna Ginige ’26, a member of Princeton Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP), recounted the events at Columbia in a speech to the crowd. He was met with cries of “shame!” from protesters about what was happening there.
Vice President of Students for Prison Education, Abolition & Reform (SPEAR) Kristin Nagy ’27 told the crowd about her own friends at Columbia and Barnard who had been arrested, suspended, or evicted from their campus housing this week. “These people could be us,” she said.
“Don’t forget that there are hundreds of thousands of our fellow students who have also been evicted and suspended because their universities have been destroyed,” she added, referring to the Israeli attacks against all 12 universities in Gaza since the war began.
Rowan Johnson ’27, co-chair of Princeton Young Democratic Socialists of America (YDSA) spoke about the over 30,000 deaths in Gaza, asking, “Guess who’s funding it all? This country, including this University,” pointing behind him to Nassau Hall.
Other speakers included representatives of Central Jersey Democratic Socialists of America, Unidad Latina en Acción, and Princeton Israeli Apartheid Divest, a group of students advocating for the University to divest from companies tied to Israel’s “ongoing military campaign, occupation, and apartheid policies.”
There did not appear to be an organized counter-protest effort, although one student standing outside the gates enclosing the demonstration unfurled an Israeli flag shortly after the protest began; another student displaying Israeli and U.S. flags later joined. Later, when the demonstrators marched around Cannon Green, a sophomore borrowed the Israeli flag to pose for a photo with the protest in the background.
The events of the protest also included an encounter with University administration. About 20 minutes in, SJP Secretary Patrick Jaojoco GS said, “Everybody say hello to the chair of ODUS over there,” referring to Associate Dean of Undergraduate Students Jarrett Fisher. “They’ve notified us that we cannot use this mic.”
The use of amplified sound at protests must be approved by the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students (ODUS). During the protest, organizers were handed cards informing them that they were in violation of University policy.
“If you do not cease the disruption immediately, you may be removed from the site and may face University-imposed sanctions (including being barred from campus) and/or arrest,” the cards read.
Compared to how the Israel-Gaza war has roiled other schools, the response on Princeton’s campus has been far less heated. Friday’s protest was the first major demonstration in support of Palestine on campus since Feb. 12, and protest tactics have not escalated beyond a die-in in front of Firestone Library in February. Elsewhere, students have staged hunger strikes and sit-ins to demand action from their institutions.
Pro-Palestinian students and student groups at Princeton have also not faced arrest or major disciplinary action from the University. On Friday, the University of Pennsylvania became the latest school to revoke recognition of a pro-Palestinian student group, citing alleged noncompliance with university policy.
The demonstration aimed to reach beyond just those who passed by Nassau Hall that afternoon.
Jaojoco told demonstrators that the University was planning to take a drone photo of Cannon Green, where Declaration Day festivities were being held. After protesters had been in front of Nassau Hall for about an hour, they began marching around the side of the building towards the celebration.
Class of 2026 Social Chair Aarushi Adlakha confirmed to the ‘Prince’ that the drone photo ultimately was not taken.
“​​We’re not only sending a solidarity message to Columbia today, we are sending a message to Princeton,” Jaojoco said at one point. “We need to make sure that every single person on this campus knows that we are here.”
Annie Rupertus is a head News editor for the ‘Prince’ from Philadelphia who often covers activism and campus governance.
Miriam Waldvogel is an associate News editor and the investigations editor for the ‘Prince.’ She is from Stockton, Calif. and often covers campus activism and University accountability.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Editor’s note: This piece was updated to include additional information about events  in the morning of Monday, April 22 on other campuses.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
The cannon which had been buried behind Nassau Hall in the center of Cannon Green since 1840 was pulled from its landmark location last night, according to a TigerAlert sent to the Princeton community at 2:12 a.m.
Our hero, who has been identified as Arthur Lewis-Library ’25, was described in the TigerAlert as a “roughly 6 foot tall, student-aged, athletic male with so much confidence and so little rationality.”
Onlookers at the scene of the cannon-pulling recall Lewis-Library “stumbling hastily toward the cannon, as if being called to it by a higher power.” Once the cannon was pulled from its concrete sheath, Lewis-Library reportedly yelled out: “The cannon has chosen me! I am the next Dean of the College!”
The TigerAlert did not clarify whether or not Lewis-Library would be the next Dean of the College, as the cannon declared. However, according to a survey conducted on the Barstool Princeton Instagram, 67 percent of respondents are in favor of the cannon’s decision, while 21 percent are against. The other 12 percent believe the University should replace the position entirely with an AI email generator.
Students’ reactions to the cannon-pulling have been mixed, with some outraged by the “desecration of Princetonian history,” as claimed in a HoagieMail sent by the Coffee Club, who just seemed to be trying to promote their new ‘Cannon Green Tea’ and ‘Iced Caffè Ameri-cannon’ drinks.
Although other students have expressed their support for Lewis-Library, most students appear worried about the bright, glowing hole left in the ground where the cannon was buried, with some students reporting “strange humming” and “loud scraping noises” coming from the pit.
The Daily PrintsAnything sent a reporter to investigate, but upon return, he seemed to have no memory of anything before entering the pit. He appeared disoriented and oblivious, asking us repeatedly to point him toward the Nassau Weekly newsroom.
Spencer Bauman is a co-head Humor editor, who recently room drew into the cannon pit. He can be reached at sbauman@princeton.edu.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.The leaves have begun their descent on Princeton’s lawns, pathways, and roofs. A little over a week past the first official day of autumn, Sept. 22, the colors of Princeton are beginning to change from lush greens and some browns after a dry, hot summer to reds, oranges, and golds. However, the leaves are not the only things falling on campus. Two trees have been cut down this season so far: one in Joline courtyard and one tree on Cannon Green.
According to Robert Staudt, the assistant director of Princeton Campus Grounds, the Grounds Team does not cut trees down on campus unless it is absolutely necessary.
“Most of the time, we do not like to cut anything down, unless it is diseased, dead, decayed, or becoming a safety hazard. We try to get it better before chopping,” Staudt said.
Though Staudt did not know the particular reason for the removal of the tree in Joline courtyard, the one on Cannon Green, an ash tree, was decayed to the point of danger. Per Staudt, the tree had been infected with the emerald ash borer, a species that has “devastated ash trees throughout the Northeast.”
Members of the Princeton community can expect new plantings on Cannon Green in the spring to replace the recently cut ash tree.
“[The Grounds Team] will come back in and plant some more [trees] up on Cannon Green, and maybe move them out a little bit more now that Class Day [is held] there. We'll make it better for events that happen on Cannon Green,” Staudt said, referencing how more university-wide events like Pre-Rade and graduation are held outside, often in summer heat.
Staudt told The Daily Princetonian that Princeton’s landscaping is specifically designed to showcase fall foliage, referring to the fall as Princeton’s “shoulder season.”
“We pick native trees with better fall foliage than other trees,” Staudt says. “We also think about yellows and reds and where they go and how they mix together.”
Though the landscaping design has been modernized somewhat, the plan set out by Princeton’s original landscape architect, Beatrix Jones Farrand, in 1912 remains the vision today. Farrand established the “ivy” look of the campus.
As for the leaves, Staudt said, “We’re probably going to have an earlier fall season, and maybe not quite as vibrant as in other years due to the drought and the dryness we got this summer, but we’ll still see some of those pretty colors though they are falling earlier.”
Though this season may not be Princeton’s most colorful in recent memory, Princeton’s walkways, lawns, and plant beds will soon be filled with leaves. Mediation and clean-up of fallen foliage began this week.
The early fallen leaves “get mulched” by lawnmowers, as the Grounds Team cuts the grass in order to keep it maintained at a certain level. Throughout autumn, the Grounds Team will continue raking leaves out of the beds, again mulching them with a lawnmower. After the leaves are mulched, they will be blown back into the beds, adding the natural organic matter right back into the flower beds in preparation for the spring season.
“We don’t throw the leaves away,” Staudt said. “We reuse them fully.”
The leaves are turned around four times and chopped up every nine months. After being left to decompose over winter, spring, and summer, the leaves are chopped up for Princeton’s own special blend of planting soil that the Grounds Team makes on site.
“It makes it special to work here. Princeton has a good outlook, and [the Grounds Team] gets to do some things right,” Staudt said. “We have the ability to ask, experiment, and do things the right way when we can.”
Hallie Graham is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ from Nashville, Tenn.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As the sun defrosts our campus and Princeton students begin to lie on Cannon Green and Poe Field, Coffee Club has released their spring drinks to power us through the final weeks of the school year. During the week of March 24, Coffee Club announced a new spring drink each day, offering 50% off on Friday, April 28, at both locations. As a true warm-weather enthusiast, I decided to try out all of the newly offered spring-themed drinks.
Honey Bee Cortado
Served hot only, the menu describes this cortado as “lightly sweetened with honey and spiced with cinnamon.” I was surprised by this drink — the honey was an undertone and let the coffee flavor shine, adding a subtle sweetness to cut the espresso’s bitterness. I opted for oat milk instead of regular milk, and even though it was only a four-ounce drink and oat milk has a strong flavor, the oat milk didn’t overpower the honey-espresso flavor of the cortado. I would recommend this drink for a cold and rainy spring day when you want the joy of spring but the coziness of a warmer drink.
Seaside Shaken Espresso
Served iced only, this drink is a shaken espresso with sea salt and caramel sauce, with extra caramel drizzled on the sides of the cup. As a sweetened latte lover, this was probably my favorite of the drinks. It was sweeter than the cortado but not so sweet that it felt like a dessert. As the caramel on the side of the cup slowly dissolved into the drink, the caramel flavor increased, resulting in a drink that gets more delicious the longer you sip. This drink tastes like the glimmer of summer sunshine on a warm spring day.
Springtime Spritz
Described as “spring in a cup” by the advertisement from Coffee Club, this is an espresso seltzer with notes of lemon and lavender. I’m not the biggest fan of fizzy espresso drinks, such as the past espresso tonics. Although this one wasn’t for me, I could see how the balance of sweet and citrus flavors could be bright and pleasant for a fan of this type of drink. The floral note of the lavender syrup reminded me of going to a flower shop, but I would have enjoyed the drink more without the sparkling water and perhaps as a latte instead.
Sunrise Refresher
This drink is the epitome of springtime and warm weather. I’m torn between the Seaside Shaken Espresso and this one for my favorite of the new drop — a mix of green tea, lemonade, and strawberry, it was fresh and sweet and spring in a cup. The green tea keeps the drink from being too sweet, while the strawberry and lemonade add freshness. I can see myself sitting on Poe Field on a Saturday afternoon enjoying this drink.
Matcha Madness
Served iced or hot, this raspberry matcha is perfect for the matcha lovers on campus. As someone who usually has issues with the grassy, earthy aftertaste of matcha, I loved the raspberry addition to this drink. The sweet fruitiness replaced the usual aftertaste, but it wasn’t so strong that it overpowered the matcha flavor itself. Even though I’m not much of a matcha drinker, I thoroughly enjoyed this drink and would order it again.
Available at both locations, any of the new Coffee Club spring drinks would be the perfect way to brighten any student’s day as we move into spring. While any of the drinks can bring a little sunshine to your day, I highly recommend the Sunshine Refresher and the Seaside Shaken Espresso.
Lulu Pettit is a member of the Class of 2027 and a senior writer for The Prospect from the suburbs of Philadelphia. She can be reached at lp3153[at]princeton.edu or her Instagram @itslulupettit.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.When I entered McCarter’s Matthews Theatre for a professional production of Karen Zacarías’s “Legacy of Light,” I was expecting the stage to look familiar, as its setting was one I know well: Princeton. Instead, I found a theater transformed into a Princeton full of sparkling planets, gold chandeliers, and much brighter rainbow hues than our current rainy spring allows. It’s a Princeton that oscillates between present-day New Jersey and 18th century France in fluid scenes, tied together by actors who deftly swap between jeans and lacy pastel gowns to portray the lives of two scientists living three hundred years apart.
“Legacy of Light” tells the interconnected stories of two female physicists, historical figure Émilie du Châtelet and fictional modern-day scientist Dr. Olivia Hastings Brown. Châtelet is known for building off of the ideas of scientists such as Isaac Newton and her long-lasting relationship with Voltaire, while fictional Hastings Brown is an astrophysicist living in Princeton, who has just discovered a new planet.
Zacarías told The Daily Princetonian that she decided to set the play in Princeton to find the “modern day equivalent” of Émilie du Châtelet, and described Princeton as a place of “women astrophysicists who are mothers” just like Châtelet.
“Your campus is the perfect place to cultivate that kind of intellectual curiosity, and the idea of a woman loving her work and still trying to maintain some kind of balance with her family,” Zacarías explained.
Princeton astrophysical science professor Jenny Greene was consulted during the production process to develop the scientific elements of the play, mainly seen in soliloquies about Hastings Brown’s discovery of a planet and in Châtelet’s work with the properties of light. Zacarías said she wanted to prepare for the Princetonians she described as a “generous but exacting audience.” The complex explanations of a developing planet certainly make for a powerful contrast with the burbling humor of the show, balancing a generous wit with precise scientific knowledge.
This interconnection of science and art defines much of the play; one scene brings an all-too-familiar scientific talk to life, as Hastings Brown adjusts the microphone of a lectern and thanks a tech person for their assistance. This moment infuses scholarly lectures with a sense of performance sometimes missing from the world of academia, showing how artistic flare can bring rigid physics to life.
What struck me the most about the show was how deeply women are centered in its narrative. Although Châtelet and Hastings Brown are both loving mothers throughout the course of the show, this does not prevent them from pursuing their scientific worth or maintaining a strong sense of self. Their male partners were supportive of their work, and, although the mood of the show ranges from silly to somber, women — and their passions, ideas, and loves — are always the center of its cosmos.
Perhaps the most emotionally poignant moments of the play were what Zacarías described as “joyful soliloquies about intellectual pursuit,” in which both Châtelet and Hastings Brown were empowered to take up the whole stage as they worked through scientific discoveries — commanding the audience with exuberance on their faces as they worked through scientific concepts like the properties of light. Their passion for their respective work was as palpable as their ardor for lovers or children, despite the impending danger of childbirth for Châtelet. Zacarías mentioned the issue of women’s health and reproductive rights as one that weighed on her, and one to which she hoped the play could bring some hope.
“Women in science is really important, but the science of women is also really important to keeping us alive,” she noted. I took the play’s final moment, in which Châtelet gazes into the audience as the lights go out, as a reminder that, even in the face of challenges to women’s health, luminaries like her continue to fight for their voices to be heard and shine their light.
“Legacy of Light” deals with difficult topics, such as death during childbirth and surrogate pregnancies, but carries them with a celebratory lightness. A sense of joy emanates from its humorous one-liners, such as the physical comedy, a gorgeously-glittering set design, and the many remarks about the shortcomings of men that brought the performance to a pause for a collective chuckling.
The climax of the show brings outpourings of emotion from each character, but it’s flavored with a dash of comic absurdity. There’s a Mad Lib quality of eccentric combinations to it all, with French and American characters crossing time and space to meet under the dazzling, candle-filled branches of Newton’s fictional apple tree — a highlight of the set design. Hastings Brown scrambles awkwardly around the trunk of the tree, seemingly trying to escape from her fears of motherhood in its branches, and the air rings with cries such as “you just got struck by lightning!” The play’s closing moments feel a bit like the explosions of color that portray Hastings Brown’s new-found planet during her lecture — a jumble of love, passion, and light.
“Legacy of Light” runs at McCarter through April 6.
Lily Hutcheson is a member of the Class of 2028, an assistant editor for The Prospect, and a contributing constructor for the Puzzles section.
Please send any corrections to corrections@dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.A line wrapped around the side of McCarter Theatre as dusk settled over Princeton’s campus. The people waiting chatted eagerly, some with their phones open and others clutching printed pieces of paper.
Everyone, whether with a digital or physical copy, had tickets in hand to see Laufey, a renowned Icelandic musician. Laufey was the top jazz artist on Spotify in 2022 and won a Grammy for the Traditional Pop Vocal Album in 2024. She has previously performed in venues like the Sydney Opera House and Radio City Music Hall.
However, this wasn’t a packed arena. Instead, Laufey was sitting down for a Princeton-exclusive event — a personal conversation with Anna Yu Wang, a Princeton assistant professor of music. The event was co-sponsored by the Department of East Asian Studies.
“I’m feeling so good. Thank you so much for having me. This is such a dream come true. I’ve always wanted to come and walk around this campus, and it’s so inspiring,” Laufey said in her opening remarks, joking that she wanted to “soft launch” Princeton as her new study spot.
The conversation wandered between Laufey’s upbringing in classical music, her breakthrough into improvisational music, her social media presence, and the impact of her cultural and familial background on her growth as a musician.
Laufey credits her background in classical music as informing her prowess in melody today; growing up, she played the cello and piano, instruments she practiced regularly after school. Yet, when she realized that she didn’t want to pursue classical music professionally, Laufey began to consider other avenues for a career in the industry.
“I still knew that I wanted to be a musician and I wanted to find a way to mix all of these different things together, but I hadn’t really found any artists to listen to or follow, and had mixed those worlds together. I guess I kind of just became that. It was a difficult journey for me because I became such a good rule follower through classical music,” she said.
Improvisation — a key component of the jazz genre that Laufey now embraces — did not come so easily after her start in classical music.
“I was mortified. I was so scared every week, and I’d sit in a practice room just trying to figure [improvisation] out, and I barely knew where to start,” she said when asked about improvising for the first time publicly, an experience she faced as an undergraduate at the Berklee College of Music.
As the conversation unfolded, Laufey began to diverge into her identity and its influence on her decisions, particularly as an artist. Laufey is Chinese and Icelandic, and she grew up splitting her time between Iceland, the United States, and China.
“I think being straddled in so many cultures has been such a good thing for me as a musician, because now, I get to travel the world and tour the world, and I’m so innately aware of how big the world is and how many people there are. There isn’t just a group of 400,000 people on an island … that’s Iceland,” she said.
Bringing Laufey to campus was a group effort involving several parties, particularly Princeton Encore and McCarter Theatre. Princeton Encore, founded by Simon Marotte ’26, is a group that looks to bring well-known artists to campus for Q&A conversations.
“I was interested in having intimate Q&A conversations … I would love to see artists come and talk about their lives and not just perform,” Marotte told The Daily Princetonian.
Marotte brought a list of dream guest artists to the staff of McCarter, and the team began working on pitches. Laufey, not on Marotte’s original list, came into the fold later.
“For some reason, she wasn’t on the initial wish list. I don’t know why I was not thinking of her … she would be perfect for Princeton because she’s dubbed as Gen Z’s jazz icon. So many members of my generation love her, and I’ve been a fan of her for a while because I love jazz, and I play piano, and I really appreciate what she’s doing,” Marotte told the ‘Prince.’
According to Marotte, it took about a year of pitching and negotiating to bring Laufey to McCarter. In the future, he hopes to see her visit campus again and continue a conversation about her music.
Marotte is a former head Puzzles editor for the ‘Prince.’
Laufey’s arrival was also a sizable undertaking for McCarter Theatre, both in the process of booking Laufey and the ordeal of preparing the theater for her arrival. The bulk of responsibility was directed to Arts & Ideas, a program housed within McCarter’s services that “connects Princeton University scholarship, campus life and community partners to the work on our stage and behind-the-scenes.”
“We’re a smaller venue than Radio City, and we get major artists here,” Debbie Bisno, Director of University and Artistic Partnerships at McCarter Theatre, told the ‘Prince.’
“We knew that we were going to have to be competitive in a different way … it’s not easy to book the people that we book … and one of the things we can offer is direct and authentic engagement with students and campus,”
Paula Abreu, Director of Presented Programming at McCarter Theatre, broke down the logistics of booking an artist like Laufey in more depth.
“I reached out to the agent. It was a longshot,” she said. “[W]e have these relationships with agents and reps and that makes a difference … when you already have an established relationship, it cuts through a layer. It was actually a quick response,” Abreu told the ‘Prince.’ From there, negotiations about fees and dates began.
Abreu also noted that McCarter had to gear up the theater to prepare for Laufey’s arrival.
“McCarter may have worked with artists like this before, but it’s rare that this sort of relationship happens, and it’s delicate in the sense that they come with many more requirements. This informs things like, what does the security look like at our theater, things that we usually don’t have to pay very deep attention to,” she said to the ‘Prince.’
Yet for many audience members, the logistics were worth it, especially with the surprise miniature concert that concluded the event.
Laufey slung a guitar over her shoulder and approached a standing microphone. She sang two songs: “Bored” and “From the Start.” The theater became alive as students raised phones to record and sang softly along with her.
Students chanted “blah, blah, blah” along with Laufey, some of the more playful lyrics of “From the Start.” During her performance, Laufey also twisted a lyric or two, telling Princeton she “loved [them] from the start” in some of the last lines of her performance.
Her exit, where she wished students a great semester before leaving the stage, was met with a standing ovation.
Editor's Note: This piece has been updated to include that the event was co-sponsored by the Department of East Asian Studies.
Isabella Dail is a staff News writer and head editor for The Prospect for the ‘Prince.’
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Just like a classic vinyl, McCarter Theatre’s most recent musical sensation “Empire Records: The Musical” spins a tale that grooves through nostalgia, dropping the needle on the vibrant beats of the 90s with its vibrant soundtrack. Filled with punk rock and rooftop dancing, this electrifying musical directed by Trip Cullman tells the story of a band of teenage misfits fighting to save the record store they work at, Empire Records, from a corporate takeover.
Carol Heikkinen, the writer of the 1995 film of the same name, drew inspiration for the story from her own experiences working at record stores. In 2017, she collaborated with composer and lyricist Zoe Sarnak to adapt the film into a musical. Together, they were able to revisit the story and expand on its characters in new ways. “Empire Records: The Musical” is showing at McCarter Theater from September 6, 2024 to October 6, 2024.
The story follows rule-follower Corey, played by Lorna Courtney, in her role as store clerk at the beloved Empire Records. She is accompanied by her diverse group of friends who work at the store with her: the ambitious best friend Gina, played by Samantha Williams, the not-so-secret admirer AJ, played by Liam Pearce, the sharp-edged Debra, played by Analise Scarpaci, the impulsive Lucas, played by Tyler McCall, and the eccentric Mark, played by Eric Wiegand.
The main conflict of the show arises when former music star Rex Manning, played by Damon Daunno, visits Empire Records. With the teens caught up in the excitement of “Rex Manning Day,” disaster strikes when the record store’s owner Joe, portrayed by Michael Luwoye, is faced with the difficult decision to sell Empire Records to corporate conglomerate Music Town.
I was fortunate enough to snag one of the last tickets available for Friday night’s performance on September 20. Little did I know that this seat would be in the literal front and center row — meaning I was up close to all of the action happening on stage.
There were many stand-out performances of the evening. Courtney, fresh off her Broadway debut as Juliet in “& Juliet,” is electric on stage. With raw emotions, she portrays her character’s development as a young girl who struggles with the idealization of fame and the future versus true friendship, ultimately growing wiser by the end of the show.
Daunno is a scene-stealer in the role of a washed-up popstar down to his last penny, presenting the perfect mix of arrogant charm with hidden grievances of a longing for lost youth. Another bright spot is Scarpaci, who delivers a heart-wrenching ballad that highlights the tougher parts of adolescence and is truly a showstopper.
Another standout from the production is the set design by David Rockwell. Starting off with the audience viewing the front facade of the store, the whole set piece rises, revealing the inside of Empire Records. The store is decorated with posters of 90s icons and a plethora of records, inviting the audience into the time period. A particularly striking detail was the rooftop platform with the huge neon “Empire Records” sign, a place where many characters reflect in moments of solitude. For instance, the rooftop is used as a moment of privacy for AJ as he attempts to confess his love for Corey at exactly 1:37 a.m. in the morning, a significant time in the one hour and thirty seven minute show.
Zoe Sarnak states in the playbill that she hopes the show highlights “the importance of places that create home for all the different kinds of misfits — aka an exceptionally cool and special odd ducks.” Through an upbeat soundtrack and chaotic staging — with characters running through the aisles of the theater and pulling audience members into the world of the story — this show is a must-see production this fall.
Isabella Rivera is a member of the Class of 2027 and a contributing writer for The Prospect. She can be reached at ir6143@princeton.edu.
With spring here, Marley Hartnett-Cody, a contributing writer for The Prospect, explores the campus’s best outdoor study spots.
Associate Editor for The Prospect Gavin McLoughlin and Staff Writer for The Prospect Annika Plunkett take us inside the hidden basement bakery fueling Princeton’s dining halls with over 6,000 desserts a day.
Staff Writer for The Prospect Amanda Hugas analyzes campus fashion through the lens of backpacks, bags, and totes.As I shook the rain off of my jacket and got out my concert ticket in the warm, inviting lobby of the Matthews Theater at McCarter, I glanced around, noticing that I appeared to be one of the only people under 60-years-old in attendance. We were all here to see famed singer-songwriter Lucinda Williams’s “Don’t Tell Anybody the Secrets I Told You” show, which combines a career-spanning setlist with stories, photos, and videos from her recent namesake memoir. Even though Williams’ impact on American music has lasted decades, it seemed like most of her audience tonight was composed of people who witnessed her initial rise to success in the 1990s. Despite this generational gap, after reading Williams’s memoir and listening to her music for the past few months, I realized that her story might be more relatable to Princeton students than I once thought.
The audience’s anticipation was palpable even before the house lights were dimmed — many were so poised to clap the second Williams came onstage, that a technician fixing a microphone was accidentally given an enthusiastic round of applause. The audience then began a rhythmic, synchronized clap, as if we were at a baseball stadium, that lasted until Williams and her band appeared from behind the curtains.
The show took much the same narrative arc as Williams’s memoir, beginning with classic folk songs that inspired her to become a musician, such as Hank Williams’s “Jambalaya (On the Bayou),” and Elizabeth Cotton’s “Freight Train.” These songs evoked a feeling of nostalgia as I remembered listening to them as a kid.
Throughout the night, Williams played many of her most well-known tracks, including the energetic “Car Wheels on a Gravel Road,” and “Drunken Angel,” as well as the more mournful, story-like “Lake Charles” and “Bus to Baton Rouge.” It’s the narrative quality of much of Williams’s music that makes it so special, although in her memoir she admitted to switching this style up as soon as she was pigeonholed into categories like “singer-songwriter” or “Americana.” Williams’s voice, like her writing style, is powerful but ever-changing, easily moving from gravelly rock to soft blues and back again within the course of a few numbers.
As the show progressed further into Williams’s career, she shared stories about trying to “make it” as a musician, moving from one city to another.
“I’m gettin’ pretty …what’s the word …” she pondered, trying to describe her feelings while moving from Texas to LA. The audience called out positive suggestions like, “awesome!” or “famous!”, anticipating a self-appraising moment, but Williams had something else in mind.
“Oh yeah, anxious!” she concluded, prompting a round of laughter. Williams’s anxieties about launching her career is something to which most students can definitely relate as we prepare to begin our own careers. I found myself nodding along as she described the rigorous artistic routine she undertook when it came to writing. It was reassuring and inspiring to see another woman intent on making a place for herself as an artist, now playing for rapt audiences and looking back on her career.
The performance was also accompanied by media projected on a large backdrop screen, which ranged from photos of Williams as a child to stock footage of blooming flowers to weird pans of Bob Dylan album covers. Although some of the home-videos and personal photos added nice touches, it was clear that the music, and words, were the main focus of the evening. Williams applied a conversational quality to breaks between songs, sharing anecdotes as her bandmates changed instruments. She remarked that she was happy that in Princeton there was enough academic support to understand her background growing up surrounded by a father, a poet and professor, and his colleagues. She was also pleasantly surprised when most people seemed to understand her references to southern cuisine and culture. “I’m in Princeton and y’all know what Boudin is!” she laughed.
Williams ended her show with a standing ovation and rollicking encore of “Joy” and a track from her new Beatles cover album, “While My Guitar Gently Weeps.” However, it was the final song of her main setlist that stuck with me, “Where the Song Will Find Me.” As one of her most recent releases, she introduced it as being about “the beauty and the power of songwriting.” I loved the lyrics, which captured the experience of searching for writing inspiration perfectly.
“I know they will find me / Like they somehow do / I know they will find me / When it’s time to,” she sang assuredly. As we wrap up the semester here at Princeton and continue to search for our songs — or poems, math equations, or research projects — that’s what you should take away from Williams’s show — as long as you keep searching, they’ll find you.
Lily Hutcheson is a member of the Class of 2028 and a contributing writer for The Prospect and a contributing constructor for the Puzzles Section.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Princeton women’s basketball saw half the attendance numbers of the men’s team at both Jadwin Gym and away venues this season — despite a better Ivy League record and a March Madness appearance in the First Four.
Throughout the men’s 30 games and women’s 28, fan attendance varied from venue to venue. On average, men’s basketball attracted more than double the attendance both at Jadwin Gym and away. At Jadwin, an average of 2,503 attendants cheered on the men’s team, while an average audience of 1,311 cheered on the women. This filled up, on average, 36.1 percent and 18.1 percent of the gymnasium’s 6,854 person capacity, respectively.
Aside from the annual Jersey Jam—a yearly contest between Rutgers University men’s basketball and Princeton’s men’s team contested at a neutral venue—the highest attended matchups on either side saw approximately 4,050 fans attend.
On average, Princeton men’s basketball brought more attendees to Jadwin than away venues. When the women's team played, Jadwin was the third-highest-attended venue on average, while women's away games at Columbia and Harvard had more attendees.
Games on Fridays and Saturdays for the men’s team had the most attendance, while women’s games with the highest attendance were non-conference games on Mondays.
The highest attendance for both teams occurred in the afternoon between 2 p.m. and 5:30 p.m., with the men’s team drawing an average of 2,792 fans and the women’s team attracting 1,574. The women’s team’s postseason appearance may also drive higher attendance in the coming seasons, while the men’s team can continue capitalizing on their strong home support at Jadwin Gym.
Men’s basketball finished third in the Ivy League after falling to Yale in the Ivy Madness tournament. Women’s basketball finished second in the Ivy League after a narrow three-point loss to Harvard in Ivy Madness. They lost to Iowa State in the First Four of the NCAA Tournament on Wednesday night.
Over the past 15 years, Princeton men’s basketball has appeared in three NCAA tournaments, including their historic run to the Sweet Sixteen in 2023. They were also two-time Ivy League postseason champions. In the same timeframe, Princeton women’s basketball has appeared in seven NCAA tournaments, including their sixth consecutive appearance in 2025, and won the Ivy League five times.
While the attendance disparity is likely not unique to Princeton, women’s college basketball has been growing in prominence on the national stage. The 2024 NCAA tournament was the first time that the women’s title game  more viewers than the men’s — an average of 18.7 million, compared to 14.82 million.
Elaine Gao is a contributing Data and Research writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.After recent wins at Jadwin Gymnasium this weekend, both of Princeton’s basketball teams remain undefeated at home. Home games bring many advantages, including the presence of the band, the cheer team, and thousands of fans in the stadium built for Tiger victories — and recent games have seen the largest crowds flock to Jadwin in over a decade.
With the Ivy League championship fast approaching, The Daily Princetonian looked how the electric atmosphere inside Jadwin at home games has shaped the Tigers’ success, from the thousands of fans to the plaid-wearing Princeton University Band to the cheer team — all of which will be present at the upcoming tournament in New York. This season, the teams will not have the home-court advantages they had at last year’s Ivy Madness, when both the men’s and women’s teams secured Ivy titles. This year, they will be playing at Columbia’s Levien Gymnasium.
Thus far this season, the women’s team has shot significantly better from the field when at home than away, with the men’s team seeing a small improvement. The women’s squad has shot 48.5 percent from the field when under the dome at Jadwin and 44.2 percent while on the road, with these figures being 46.4 percent and 45.1 percent for the men, respectively.
From the charity stripe, the men have sunk 83.4 percent of their shots at home and 79.3 percent when away. For the women, the reverse was true, with their free throw percentage being 70.2 percent when at home and 71.6 percent while away. Both teams make within one percentage point of their three-point shots when comparing home and away games.
Recent men’s home games have been some of the most attended in over a decade. The game against Cornell on March 2 was the highest that ESPN recorded since 2010, with 5,409 fans in attendance. Since there are 6,854 seats in Jadwin Gym, this occupancy accounted for 79 percent of seats filled.
The last time this many fans streamed into Jadwin for a men’s game was during another matchup against Cornell on Feb. 13, 2010, when ESPN recorded 5,775 fans filling the stands in Jadwin. Much like the Tigers’ Saturday thriller, the game was a nail-biter — but unlike Saturday, Cornell emerged victorious with a final score of 48–45.
At the time, the ‘Prince’ reported that the crowd’s atmosphere was “electrifying,” with then-senior center Zach Finley telling the ‘Prince’ postgame that “it was special to see a crowd like that, to see that many people out … I’ve definitely never seen it like that.”
This 2010 game was the most attended men’s game since Feb. 10, 2004, when the Tigers fell 52–67 to the Penn Quakers — the last time men’s attendance crossed 6,000. Princeton lost both of those highly attended games. Saturday’s victory against Cornell was the most attended men’s home game that Princeton won since the Tigers hosted the Yale Bulldogs at home on Feb. 22, 2002, when ESPN recorded that all seats in Jadwin were occupied. Princeton beat Yale 59–46.
Games towards the end of the season, during conference play, tend to be more highly attended than those at the beginning. Jadwin is the second-largest on-campus college basketball arena in New Jersey, seating students opposite the team benches to provide optimal advantages for the home team crowd.
“When we shoot them, it’s quiet, and when they shoot them, it gets real loud,” senior guard Matt Allocco said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ “I think it definitely plays a part in it. I think they missed a couple big ones to win the game, and I’ll credit our fans for that,” referrencing the team's win against Cornell.
The Princeton University Band, known for their plaid orange and black suits and plastic Santa, has attended 14 basketball games so far this season, evenly split between the men’s and women’s teams. The scramble band, made up of 25 to 35 undergraduate and graduate members, aims to bring spirit to the games and rile up the crowd, encouraging them to show their Princeton spirit.
“I think just being able to feed into that spirit and have a lot of fun, get into the game, and just support the team is ultimately our goal,” drum major Kate Voltz ’26 said.
A signature of the band is its “garbussion” instruments, combining trash and tchotchkes with traditional percussion instruments.
“Whether the stadium is full or empty, if the band is there, the spirits are very high,” band president Megan Hannon ’25 said. “Everyone is so happy to see us there.”
One advantage the band may provide to the Tigers is distracting the opposing teams, especially during free throws, where the band makes an effort to be especially loud. Both men’s and women’s average opponent free throw percentages were lower at home games in Jadwin Gym.
The band also will count down the shot clock incorrectly.
“We don’t know if they’re messing up because they just messed up, but we like to believe,” Hannon said.
“Because Jadwin has a really intimate environment, we’re really able to connect with the fans and be present and make a lot of noise,” Head Cheerleading Coach Claudia Ralph said.
The cheer team has been to every home game this season besides the three men’s games during winter break. The cheer team is made of 21 bases, backs, and fliers who are all in attendance for the majority of home basketball games. Only the cheer team has attended a neutral site game, one of three played between the two teams this season.
“Cheering the way that we want to cheer is always having plans for March Madness,” Ralph said. “The NCAA thresholds for neutral site games, so even last year, when we hosted the Ivy League tournament, we could only bring 12 cheerleaders … We have scenarios where, you know, one team makes it or both teams make it — last year we learned that that was a scenario that we needed to prepare for.”
While not a varsity sport, the cheer team is housed within the athletic department. The team cheers primarily at football and basketball games as well as select events of other sports.
This season, both the band and cheer squads have been in attendance at nine games. While the squads do not jointly plan which games they will attend, they have practiced together for timeouts when they are both in attendance. This year, the cheer team and the band have coordinated on certain timeouts in an attempt to further excite the rowdy energy in Jadwin Gym. At certain points throughout the game, the cheer team dances to the Princeton Cannon Song, which the band plays for them.
Voltz said the band and cheer team are “like two sides of the same coin,” noting that the cheer team is “more peppy fun” while “we are chaotic fun.”
The band has only been in attendance at one basketball game without the cheer team this season — the men’s basketball game against Bryn Athyn on Dec. 13. The Tigers won 92–40 — coincidentally their biggest win this season.
“We’re really fortunate that we cheer for such talented basketball teams and that we do have the opportunity to accompany them and cheer them on at an Ivy Madness,” Ralph said.
“[We’re very happy] that we’re here in this very historic time in Princeton basketball history, like that’s incredible,” Hannon said.
The band and cheer team will be joining both men’s and women’s basketball at Ivy Madness in New York City beginning on March 15.
“They’re supporting just like everybody else,” Allocco said. “You know, they [band and cheer] do a great job and they’re loud and they get rowdy. So we appreciate everything they do.”
Andrew Bosworth is a head Data editor and Sports contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Vincent Etherton is a contributing Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any corrections requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.In a home duel against No. 17 ranked Rutgers (5–2 overall, 0–0 Big Ten) on Sunday, Princeton Wrestling (2–4 overall, 0–0 Ivy League) lost eight of the ten total matches, with a final score of 7–32. Although Princeton was defeated by a sizable margin, a number of starting wrestlers were injured and unable to compete.
“We were definitely short handed in a lot of weights,” head coach Joe Dubuque told The Daily Princetonian. “I was actually pretty encouraged with the fight that those ten individuals (starters) brought.”
This event was hosted by Princeton in Jadwin Gymnasium, with hundreds of spectators filling the audience. The energy from the home crowd attempted to give the short-handed Tigers a boost, but the first half was all Scarlet Knights.
The duel began at the 141-pound weight class, with a close match ending in a loss for Princeton sophomore Drew Heethuis. The first half of the tournament continued with four more Princeton losses, including a major decision (8 to 14 point loss) in the 157-pound weight class and a pin against first-year Xavier Giles in the 174 weight class.
The second half of the duel proved more fruitful for the wrestling team in terms of success on the mat. Senior Michael Squires secured the first victory of the day in the 184 weight class, where he won the match with a final score of 3–0. Squires escaped in the second period, and started out the third period on top, keeping control throughout the period.
“That kid about a year ago majored me,” Squires told the ‘Prince.’ “Just to have that improvement, I feel like I’ve made a big mental jump. It just shows how much work I've been doing.”
Following three more Tiger losses, first-year Dan Jones from the 133-pound weight class finished out the duel with the final win of the afternoon. Jones won with a final score of 9–1, a major decision earning four team points for Princeton.
“I knew it was going to be tough coming in,” said Dubuque. “I told them before the match started we need to fight every position, every point, every minute of the match, and we need to represent our brand to the best of our ability. So I thought we did that, to the guys who stepped on the mat.”
Despite sitting at a 2–4 record, Princeton has made it a point to build a tough non-conference schedule to test themselves early on. Rutgers is already the fourth ranked opponent that the Tigers have faced in the young season, building experience against strong opponents before the Ivy League season.
This duel came after Princeton fell to No .2 ranked Iowa (6–0 overall, 0–0 Big Ten) on Friday, with only three team points total for the Princeton wrestlers. Earlier in the season, the Tigers also wrestled No. 6 ranked N. C. State (5–0 overall, 0–0 Atlantic Coast Conference), losing 6–34.
“I’m so happy that we have such a tough schedule, that we’re wrestling so many tough teams, because you get the test yourself every weekend, and you know exactly what you need to keep working on,” said Squires. “We’re going out, we’re wrestling the toughest teams, and that’s the best way to get better, win or lose.”
Princeton is hoping that the tough competition will serve as preparation for the Ivy League season in February and March, including the inaugural Ivy League tournament that they will host at Jadwin on March 9. Despite the losses, they still look to be early favorites behind highly ranked members of the team.
Moving forward, Dubuque has high hopes for the team as they continue towards the half-way mark of their season in the coming weeks.
“I want to go out to Midlands, and I think we have a team that can place top five,” Dubuque told the ‘Prince.’ “I think we can get a Midlands champ. I think we can beat West Virginia.”
The team will wrestle next at the Midlands Championships in Illinois from Dec. 29 to Dec. 30, and at home in Jadwin Gym on Jan. 4 against West Virginia (3–0 overall, 0–0 Big 12).
Devon Rudolph is a News and Sports contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.In another packed night at Jadwin Gymnasium, Princeton men's basketball (18–3 overall, 6–2 Ivy League) faced off against the Brown Bears (6–17, 2–6). Coming off of a win against Penn last weekend (9–14, 1–7), the Tigers looked to continue their momentum on Friday night — setting the stage for their rematch against the Yale Bulldogs on Saturday.
In a game that saw the Tigers seal the win late in the second half, the Tigers took the win 72–63, coming back from a ten-point deficit by finishing the game on a 22–8 run.
While senior guard Matt Allocco proved to be the star of the game with 16 points, eight rebounds, and six assists, it was first-year guard Dalen Davis who helped secure the Tigers’ win. Davis played 23 minutes Friday night — his highest total for an Ivy League contest this season — and made an impact that went beyond the stat sheet. Davis finished the contest with a plus-minus of 15.
“I thought Dalen was just terrific tonight,” head coach Mitch Henderson ’98 told The Daily Princetonian. “Stats don't tell the whole story. He had deflections, and guarded [Kino] Lilly … very very difficult to cover.”
Sophomore forward Caden Pierce led the Tigers in scoring with 21 points and 12 boards, while sophomore standout guard Xaivian Lee finished the game with 17 points, six rebounds, and four assists.
Princeton got off to a slow start, missing seven of their first eight shots. Brown guard AJ Lesburt Jr. hit a three to put the Bears up, but Lee tied the game at five with a quick layup on the other end. Allocco hit Pierce for a wing triple, and after a turnover, Allocco found Davis for a catch-and-shoot three.
The Bears started to get going offensively. After two triples and some tough finishing inside the paint, Brown held a 22–15 with under six minutes remaining in the half.  However, junior guard Blake Peters responded quickly on the other end of the court, making a great cut to the basket and completing a three-point play after getting hit by Lilly Jr.
5:43 1st | Brown 22, Princeton 18AND ONE!@ballerblake34 finishes through the heavy contact! 💻: https://t.co/X8tesR6wxB #MakeShots 🐯 pic.twitter.com/h6KCXpOLUJ
Following the and-one by Peter, the Bears made two triples in a row to extend their lead to ten. The Tigers needed to cut the deficit by halftime, which they were able to do. Peters threw a dime to Lee, who split two Brown defenders and finished at the rim. The last points of the half came courtesy of two free throws by Lee. At the break, the Tigers trailed 30–25.
After shooting just 31 percent from the field and 21 percent behind the arc, the Tigers needed a few adjustments at the break. The adjustments came, as the Tigers attacked the rim more and attempted 24 free throws in the second half.
“We weren’t really moving the ball offensively, and I have to take blame for that,” Henderson noted postgame. “I thought we did a much better job in the second half of applying our kind of basketball offensively.”
Shortly into the second half, the Bears went on a 10–6 run to take a commanding 10-point lead. The Tigers’ offense looked listless, failing to convert on a field goal for four minutes. The difference maker for the Tigers was none other than Davis.
The Chicago native stole the ball and hit a transition three, which shifted the momentum of the game. On the next Brown possession, Allocco took an offensive foul, and Davis blocked a three-point attempt, shifting the momentum further in Princeton’s favor. Princeton kept attacking the basket and drawing fouls, hitting five free throws to make it 50–48 with 8:50 left in the game.
“I thought that they were really great at getting themselves to the line, not just attempting shots at the rim but cutting hard and moving hard,” Henderson noted. “It was a physical game, but I was glad to see that we were able to make our free throws.”
In the final seven minutes, Allocco took control of the game, drawing a foul and hitting both free throws. On the next possession, he blocked a deep ball and scored in transition.
Brown continued to struggle, with Lilly Jr. getting the ball stolen from Allocco. Following the steal, Brown head coach Mike Martin was assessed a technical foul for using vulgar language toward the officials. Allocco calmly sank both technical free throws to give Princeton its first lead of the game since their early 11–10 lead. On the ensuing possession, he drilled a midrange pull-up to complete a one-man 8–0 run. The Tigers extended their lead to five after Lee split the defense and finished strong at the rim.
5:08 2nd | Princeton 62, Brown 57A 10-0 run!@xaivianlee lays it in high off the glass to put the Tigers up five! 💻: https://t.co/X8tesR6wxB #MakeShots 🐯🏀 pic.twitter.com/NNKwYOi3V3
With Princeton up five, the momentum was completely with the Tigers. A score from Lee put the Tigers up nine with just four minutes to play, and Brown never threatened again. The last four minutes proved to be the most comfortable for the Tigers as they cruised to a 72–63 victory.
“It’s always great to feed off the crowd,” Allocco told the ‘Prince.’ “But you know, the crowd doesn't give as much when we played like we did in the first half, you know, not a lot of energy and joy, but it’s fun for everybody when we play like we did in the second half. So, hopefully, tomorrow we can do that for 40 minutes.”
The Tigers were indeed able to do that for 40 minutes on Saturday night against the Yale Bulldogs (17–7, 8–1). After a back-and-forth start to the game, Henderson’s squad took a 38–30 lead into the break and never looked back, winning by a final score of 73–62.
Ryan Kirby is a staff Sports writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.New holes in the ground have opened up over the past few years during the University’s construction boom, usually tucked within residential areas on campus or large construction sites. However, the latest to crop up has defied norms and created a large and noticeable presence in front of Firestone Library, one of campus’s most notable sites.
The hole, located next to a prominent walking path on the west side of Firestone Library facing East Pyne, is a standard maintenance excavation to replace electrical switchgear equipment, according to Director of Facilities Communications Karen Fanning.
“The work is anticipated to be complete by the end of November and the area will be restored to its original [lawn] condition,” she wrote in an email to The Daily Princetonian. She also noted, “It is standard operating procedure to have the area marked out before digging these small holes.”
Students held mixed reactions about the project. Ahania Soni ’27 told the ‘Prince’ in an interview, “If they have to construct things I respect that, but it is a little annoying. This is my safe space, and I do feel like the hole intrudes a little bit.”
Conversely, Ryan Moores ’28 told the ‘Prince,’ “I honestly didn’t even notice the hole until you mentioned it. There’s so much construction going on all the time that it’s become a new normal.”
When asked about campus construction as a whole, Toussaint Santicola Jones ’25 said he felt “the construction could be stuff that’s done quickly over summer or winter.”
“I feel like they [dig holes] in the middle of times when people are touring,” Santicola Jones continued. “New students are coming and they’re like, ‘what the hell is gonna be happening the whole time we’re here?’”
In response to Jones’ comment, Fanning explained that “in some cases, work orders that are submitted to Facilities require immediate attention that cannot wait until the summer.”
Several other holes have appeared around campus in connection with smaller construction projects. On Elm Drive outside of Whitman College, chalk markings show areas that will be dug up to evaluate existing utilities, which is an ongoing procedure throughout the year.
Additionally, a hole on the west side of Jadwin Hall is the result of waterproofing repairs outside the B-level of Jadwin Hall. Fanning says that the area will be restored after the project is complete, which should be by the end of December.
Fanning told the ‘Prince’ that excavated areas are carefully selected to minimize disturbance to campus.
“Facilities plans and schedules as much work as reasonable over the summer and tries to limit campus impact to the greatest extent throughout the year,” Fanning said.
Irene Kim is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.In front of a sold-out crowd at Jadwin Gym, the Tigers (17–3 overall, 5–2 Ivy League) triumphed over the Penn Quakers (9–13, 1–6) after a late second half run. The Tigers had one of their best shooting performances of the year, connecting on 16 shots from beyond the arc and attempting their most three-point shots in any game since 2016.
“It was amazing,” sophomore forward Caden Pierce told The Daily Princetonian postgame. “The fans showed out and it really helped us down the stretch. We feed off that energy and we’re really thankful.”
Prior to tipoff, guard Clark Slajchert was activated for the Quakers. The senior had not played in a game for the Quakers since December 30th, when he injured his ankle against then-No. 3 ranked Houston. Slajchert was Penn's leading scorer prior to that contest, averaging 17.4 points per game.
“We prepared for him,” Princeton head coach Mitch Henderson ’98 told the ‘Prince.’ “They’re very different from him [Slajchert] … he didn’t look like he missed a step, really tough kid.”
The Quakers started hot in the 249th meeting between the two sides, scoring the first five points of the contest. Pierce got the scoring started for the Tigers courtesy of a pass from fellow sophomore guard Xaivian Lee. The next possession, Lee once again found Pierce, who converted a three-point shot.
Lee and Pierce both finished the game with double-doubles. Pierce finished with 17 points and 11 rebounds while Lee shone once again, scoring 22 points and grabbing ten boards.
After Slajchert scored to give the Quakers an early 12–5 lead, Lee found Pierce in the corner for his second triple of the game. Pierce scored the first eight points of the game for Princeton, all coming off passes from Lee.
“He makes my job easy,” Pierce added about Lee. “He finds me in spots where I’m successful.”
Down 19–13 with just under 13 minutes remaining in the first half, the Princeton offense ignited. A three by senior guard and captain Matt “Mush” Allocco capped off a 7–0 Tiger run and gave Princeton its first lead of the game.
Senior guard Matt Allocco gives Princeton its first lead of the game:11:37 to go:@PrincetonMBB 20@PennMBB 19 pic.twitter.com/61rGMuPGNF
After Quakers head coach Steve Donahue called a timeout, Lee connected on two straight triples to give the Tigers a 26–22 lead. With 7:45 left in the half, junior guard Blake Peters hit a three to give Princeton its largest lead of the half.
After the score by Peters, it was all Penn for the remainder of the first half. The Quakers went on an 18–7 run to close out the half, shooting a lights-out 50 percent from the field in the first half. At the break, Henderson’s squad had work to do as the Tigers trailed 40–36.
To start the second half, the teams traded baskets out of the gate. With just under 18 minutes remaining in the game, Lee drove baseline and found senior forward Zach Martini for a corner three to cut the Penn lead to one point. After shooting one for seven from the field in the first half, Martini shot 67 percent from the field in the second half.
The next four minutes saw both sides struggle offensively. The Tigers and Quakers combined for just four points during that stretch. Down 44–43, the Tigers put their foot on the gas. Lee used his speed to get by his defender and finish at the rim through contact, completing a three-point play at the line.
On the next offensive possession, Martini converted on his third triple of the night over Quaker center Nick Spinoso. The 6’9” big man for Penn made his presence known inside the paint, scoring 19 points and grabbing a game-high 14 boards.
When the Tigers went on a 8–2 run to go up 51–46, the Quakers went on their own 8–2 run to take a 54–53 lead. The game saw a total of seven lead changes and six occasions where the game was tied.
With the game tied at 56, Martini once again converted his fourth triple of the half to give Princeton a three-point lead. The shot brought the sold-out crowd at Jadwin to its feet.
4th triple of the half for senior @zachmartini5587 He is on fire in the second half.7:30 to go:@PrincetonMBB 62@PennMBB 59 pic.twitter.com/2Z38RfIzjQ
Following the three by Martini, Penn guard Tyler Perkins immediately responded with a three to tie the game. Less than 15 seconds later, Pierce found Peters for an open three from the wing. On the next Penn possession, Spinoso finished inside the paint to keep the game within reach for the Quakers. With seven minutes remaining, Princeton held a slim 62–61 lead.
Unfortunately for Penn, they went scoreless when it mattered most, failing to get the ball through the hoop for three minutes. At home in front of the Tiger faithful, Princeton capitalized on Penn’s offensive struggles. After four straight points from Allocco, Peters stroked two straight three-pointers to give the Tigers their largest lead of the night at 11, with just over four minutes to go.
Incredible ball movement for the Tigers on this possession. The Tigers have their largest lead of the night courtesy of a Blake Peters triple. It’s the 15th triple of the night for @PrincetonMBB 4:13 to go:@PrincetonMBB 72@PennMBB 61 pic.twitter.com/3NjSS5WWMz
“Penn did a good job at helping a lot, so Zach [Martini] and Blake [Peters] were open a lot,” Lee added postgame. “So it’s obviously big when they’re hitting shots.”
Following the timeout, it proved to be too little, too late for the Quakers. The last four minutes of the game proved to be the most comfortable for the Tigers, as they held on for a 77–70 win over the Quakers. The key for the Tigers in the second half was limiting turnovers and hitting its shots. Henderson’s squad had just one turnover and shot 44.4 percent from beyond the arc in the second half.
The Tigers attempted 38 threes Saturday evening, the most they’ve attempted since 2016 when they attempted 39 against Virginia Tech in a 86–81 overtime loss.
“I thought we shot the ball nicely,” Henderson told the ‘Prince.’ “But they were open shots. I think if it’s 25 feet or two feet, if it’s an open shot, it’s a good shot.”
The Tigers have now won 10 straight games against the Quakers, with the Quakers’ last win coming in February of 2018.
The attention will now turn to the Brown Bears (6–16, 2–5) and the Yale Bulldogs (16–6, 7–0) for Princeton, who will stay at home in Jadwin Gymnasium. The Tigers will play the Bears on Friday night at 7 p.m. The following night, the Tigers will play the Bulldogs on national television, with tipoff at 8 p.m.
The Tigers recently played the Bulldogs in New Haven, Conn. on Friday, Feb. 2. Despite being up by five at halftime, the Tigers could not hold on for the win and dropped the contest. Back at home, the Tigers will need to defend home court and knock off the only remaining undefeated team in the Ivy League.
Henderson added, “I still think we got some more lessons to learn, but we’re figuring out ways to win and we’re not pulling apart.”
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any corrections requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Following a tough loss to Cornell (11–6 overall, 3–1 Ivy League), Princeton men’s basketball (14–5, 3–1) looks to reestablish conference control against Yale (11–6, 4–0) in what is shaping up to be a Friday night barn burner.
Prior to the loss to the Big Red, the Tigers were 3–0 in conference play, with all three games being tight up until the final buzzer. With the loss, Princeton is now tied with Cornell in the Ivy League standings and a game behind first-place Yale.
The Bulldogs are hot, coming off of a convincing 84–55 win over Harvard. Guard John Poulakidas has led the powerful Yale scoring attack with 19.4 points per game, while the team itself is averaging 82.4.
The last time these two teams met, the Tigers won 73–62 in Jadwin Gymnasium.
Senior Sports Writer Hayk Yengibaryan, Assistant Sports Editor Bryant Figueroa, and Associate Sports Editors Doug Schwartz and Lily Pampolina made their picks for the game.
Princeton 74, Yale 70 — Hayk Yengibaryan, Senior Sports Writer
The Ivy League’s best rivalry returns Friday night in Jadwin Gym. Under head coach Mitch Henderson ’98, the Tigers are 10–18 against the Bulldogs.
Undoubtedly, Yale head coach James Jones and the Bulldogs have been the better squad heading into Friday’s contest. This is evident by Yale’s No. 73 KenPom ranking, whereas the Tigers are 136th. Despite losing unanimous first-team All-Ivy selection Danny Wolf to the transfer portal, Yale is undefeated in league play and has not lost in 2025.
A large part of Yale’s success has been the play of Poulakidas, who is averaging nearly 20 points per game while shooting an astounding 43.6 percent from beyond the arc. Guard Bez Mbeng is the reigning Ivy League Defensive Player of the Year, and forward Nick Townsend has taken a huge stride forward in the absence of Wolf.
Similarly, the Tigers have been relying heavily on their upperclass students. Junior standout guard Xaivian Lee has been one of the most clutch players in the nation and leads the Tigers with 17.2 points per game. Alongside Lee, junior forward Caden Pierce and senior guard Blake Peters have been leading the Orange and Black.
However, in college basketball, the better team does not always win. The Tigers are also playing at home, where they are 44–7 over the last four seasons. The Orange and Black cannot afford to fall two games behind the Bulldogs in the Ivy League standings.
Expect a big game from Lee on national television in front of a number of NBA scouts. Lee must attack Mbeng every opportunity he gets and force him into foul trouble and on the bench. The X-factor for the Tigers will be Peters. If he can hit three or four triples, the Tigers will defeat the Bulldogs.
Expect Princeton’s big three to outplay Yale’s top three en route to a close win in front of a packed home crowd Friday night.
Princeton 75, Yale 74 — Bryant Figueroa, Assistant Sports Editor
The Bulldogs’ perfect start to conference play comes with two big asterisks — they have yet to face the Cornell Big Red, but, more significantly, they have not played at Jadwin Gym.
The Tigers have proven time and time again this season that when they are hungry for a win, they deliver. They proved it with a last-second upset over Rutgers at Prudential Center, a 15-point comeback against Akron, and, most recently, a 20-point comeback against Columbia. At their best, Princeton men’s basketball looks like they can beat anyone. There is no stopping Lee when he finds his rhythm, and he will look to be all over the court to limit a familiar matchup, Yale’s John Poulakidas, who leads the conference in points per game.
Princeton’s defense, a defining trait of their play, will be a challenge Yale hasn’t faced this season. It certainly was last year when Pierce and company held Yale’s then-top scorer, Danny Wolf, scoreless at Jadwin. The Tigers are hungry for a win following their devastating loss to Cornell last weekend, and with this being the first game since Winter break, Jadwin Gym is sure to light up.
The Tigers were on a hot streak that was shaken up by Cornell, but that only means they will be hungrier, and as will the crowd, for a big win in front of thousands of fans. Especially with their lineup looking much more solid than it did at the beginning of the season, the Tigers have all the tools necessary in their star players and squad depth to defeat a tough opponent like Yale.
And history is on their side. Last year, the Bulldogs entered a roaring Jadwin Gym with a flawless 8–0 conference record. The Tigers shattered that streak with a commanding nine-point victory.
This year, history is poised to repeat itself.
Princeton 81, Yale 78 — Doug Schwartz, Associate Sports Editor
Coming off a loss to Cornell, Princeton will come out energized and ready to make a statement against a Yale team that is 4–0 in conference play.
Yale has looked strong during Ivy League play this year after beating Dartmouth and Harvard by 16 and 29, respectively, a stark contrast to the down-to-the-wire finishes that Princeton had against those same teams. Moreover, the Bulldogs have an adjusted efficiency margin of +10.87 compared to the Tigers’ +2.48 on KenPom, meaning they are scoring at a higher clip than the Orange and Black.
However, this Princeton team plays beyond the stat sheet. Despite going down early in lots of games this season, the Tigers have developed a tendency to make halftime adjustments and finish out games strong. While Lee and Pierce are key components to victory for Princeton (just ask Dartmouth or Rutgers), look for players like sophomore guard Dalen Davis to come up big in what is sure to be a tightly contested matchup.
Princeton 83, Yale 79 — Lily Pampolina, Associate Sports Editor
The Tigers’ seven-game win streak was snapped last Saturday, falling to Cornell in an offensive struggle that included nine costly turnovers. This week, they’ll need to sharpen their execution and maintain defensive intensity in order to get a win against an undefeated in-conference Yale squad.
To overcome the Bulldogs, Princeton must limit the number of points they concede in the opening minutes. The Tigers have allowed an average of nearly 36 points in the first half in Ivy League play, heading into the half trailing in multiple of their conference matchups. On Friday, Princeton will have to find its rhythm early and create an offensive momentum to rival Yale’s intense pace.
The Bulldogs are not afraid to shoot from beyond the arc, so the Tigers must be prepared to aggressively guard the three-point line, particularly against John Poulakidas, Yale’s main target from deep. Offensively against Yale, teams have capitalized on finishing tough drives in the paint. Princeton will have to attack the rim with confidence and convert their possessions by challenging Yale’s interior defense.
Friday’s game is a must-win for Mitch Henderson’s squad, which has struggled to achieve a dominant victory this season. As Ivy League play continues, a statement win over the Bulldogs may fuel the Tiger’s momentum, setting the tone for a strong second half of the season.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate News editor, senior Sports writer, and Education Director for the ‘Prince.’
Doug Schwartz is an associate Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Bryant Figueroa is an assistant Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Lily Pampolina is an associate Sports editor and a staff Audience creator for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Dillon Gym is changing. The gym, first opened in 1947, has seen everything from the advent of group spin classes to a newly-renovated fitness center in the past three years.
In March, another change was implemented — a new policy which requires front desk staff to swipe student IDs on a scanner behind the desk. The change was partially motivated by security concerns, but it also marks a shift towards a bigger, more community-focused gym as Dillon approaches the opening of a new fitness pavilion and lobby in the fall.
Previously, a scanner that was prominently displayed on the front of the desk enabled patrons to quickly swipe into the gym themselves, a system which sometimes created security issues.
Oliwia Morska ’24, who works as a student building supervisor at Dillon, wrote in a message to The Daily Princetonian that the building has “had a historical problem of people skipping by the card scanner” upon entering. For “safety and security reasons,” Morska wrote, the gym has updated its check-in policy and also now requires staff to directly give group fitness room keys to instructors after verifying that the keys are needed for “confirmed” events or reservations.
One student employee, Carolina Pavlik ’26, told the ‘Prince’ that although the change was communicated to staff, some employees were not convinced by the new policy’s necessity. She added that she’s also heard some complaints from gym patrons who have found the new system to be “annoying” and “don’t understand why it’s necessary.”
In terms of changing staff responsibilities, Pavlik said the policy “just requires the staff to pay more attention to their job and also to greet people coming in.”
Previous ‘Prince’ reporting has found that some student employees appreciate front desk jobs because they often leave time for students to complete schoolwork while working the desk.
“I think a lot of people joined because it was a more relaxed job and the increased interaction and more student forward management will definitely increase the workload,” Pavlik noted.
The shift towards “a more active role at the front desk” is a part of “incentivizing staff to say hello to patrons [and] not bury themselves in their devices/books” while working, Morska wrote. Morska specifically tied this adjustment to Dillon’s ongoing expansion.
“Next fall, there will be a brand-new lobby with an increasing amount of staff-patron interaction,” she said. For example, she said, “three staff will be scheduled at the front desk, but there will only be [two] chairs.”
Jessica Ward, senior associate director of athletics for Campus Rec, told the ‘Prince’ in January that the new developments to the gym are intended promote a more inclusive and welcoming environment. Campus Rec is hoping to foster a “community center feel,” she said, as opposed to a space that feels particularly “gym-ish.”
As Morska put it, “CampusRec is growing.”
Annie Rupertus is a head News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Princeton's campus is ever changing and evolving with each new generation of students. Part of the University’s most recent efforts has been an ambitious expansion of fitness facilities in the form of the Class of 1986 Fitness and Wellness Center. In light of these efforts, the Daybreak team looked back at over 100 years of fitness at Princeton, with Dillon Gym at the center of it all.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Princeton Campus Recreation turned the page on a new chapter in the multi-phase restoration of Dillon Gym on Monday, unveiling a double-decker wellness facility that boasts state of the art fitness studios and equipment. The completion of the second phase of construction also brought a new entrance and lobby to Dillon through the Class of 1986 Fitness and Wellness Pavilion.
With a number of ongoing construction projects on campus in the works, the completion of this next phase in Dillon’s overhaul project is the first big unveiling of the 2024–25 academic year. Phase two comes roughly seven months after the completion of phase one at the end of January.
Both phases brought joint progress on two long-standing projects on which construction began back in May of 2022: the new fitness center and the Meadows Campus Fitness Center. Phase one, which took 18 months to complete, also brought the reopening of the Rec Pool. Phase two added a two-story pavilion onto the in-progress fitness center project.
The Class of 1986 Center includes newly renovated central fitness areas, a two-story addition, an accessible entrance and lounge, elevator access to all levels from the main gym floor to the Rec Pool, the “Power Studio” (a space with powerlifting and Olympic-grade equipment), upgrades to the cycle studio, and a completely resurfaced outdoor recreational court.
According to University architect Ron McCoy, accessibility was a main priority for this most recent phase. McCoy particularly highlighted the fitness center’s new accessible features in a statement to the Daily Princetonian.
“The design provides a new, fully accessible entry at the level of the locker rooms. A new elevator has been added to connect all levels — fitness, pool, and the upper gym. We have been able to increase the accessible spaces to 80 percent from the previous 20 percent,” McCoy said.
Kevin Meharry, a Campus Rec staff member who mans the desk just inside the newly-opened entrance to Dillon, told the ‘Prince’ he finds the update to be “fresh and new.” Meharry described the new spaces as “cool places for students to just come and hang out.”
To Meharry, who sees students and faculty alike come and go from Dillon at all hours, the new spaces are not just places for students to work on their physique, but also multi-purpose spaces for Princetonians to “relax, recover, workout, de-stress, and just stabilize themselves, whether it be mentally, physically, or emotionally.” In Meharry’s view, “wherever [they are] in their day, they can just come in here. There’s a nice, friendly atmosphere in here.”
In January, Campus Rec’s senior associate Director of Athletics Jessica Ward told the ‘Prince’ that new developments to the gym were intended to promote a more inclusive and welcoming environment — expanding from traditional conceptions of a gym to a space with more of a “community center feel.”
From a student perspective, Keith Zhang ’24, who is now a graduate student in the School of Architecture, agrees that the expansion is a step in the right direction. After many years of planning, Zhang said he is “happy about the expansion that [he] knew was coming soon as an incoming [first-year].” But, he also noted the new space “has its ups and downs.”
He told the ‘Prince’ that as a gym-goer, he laments the lack of mirrors. “Sure, it can be attributed to some people’s ego,” he said, “but for others, it’s about making sure your form is correct. The lack of mirrors is a bit annoying to me.”
As far as architectural integrity goes, Zhang said he felt this phase of the gym improvement “turned the gym into a more commercialized space rather than one that you may find at an Ivy League University.” As a student of architecture, Zhang has some criticisms of the style chosen in the design and decoration of the fitness center. He said, “[The pavilion has] a completely new mood, tone, and space. It is nothing like Stephens or Dillon in style, design, or layout.”
Though Zhang could not identify many design elements that cohere the new gym spaces with the surrounding campus architecture, he said he appreciates “the nice details such as the preservation of the Dillon windows through a cutout into the walkway, as well as the shading panels that are around the upper edge of the pavilion.”
Besides the fitness center project, Campus Rec also has big changes in the works in the Meadows Neighborhood with the upcoming Racquet and Recreation Center. The Meadows rec center will include a new extensive fitness center, gender-inclusive showers, restrooms, lockers, and a group fitness room — all in the same building with the new tennis and squash courts.
Meadows also promises a location adjacent to the new parking garage and graduate housing. The area, which is located down Washington Road on the other side of Lake Carnegie and was formerly known as Lake Campus, also houses a number of athletic fields.
According to McCoy, Campus Rec will also add an outdoor basketball court this fall on the south-facing side of Dillon. He also reported that Stephens Fitness Center, which is located on the west side of Dillon, is set to open in the spring of 2025.
Hallie Graham is a News staff writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.For most students, Dillon Gym serves as Princeton’s primary hub for fitness and wellness. Dillon is free for all undergraduate and graduate students to use and closer to the heart of campus than Jadwin Gym, which remains largely exclusive to varsity athletes. As many gym-goers notice, at peak hours, students are forced to wait to use weight stations, strength machines, and cardio equipment.
In light of the expanding student body, as well as ongoing campus dialogue about health and wellness, the Daily Princetonian analyzed data provided by Campus Recreation and spoke to students about their experiences at Dillon.
The ‘Prince’ graphed the number of students scanning their TigerCards to access Dillon at each half hour of any given early fall semester day. Each data point in the graph represents the average number of scans during that specific interval. Although the ‘Prince’ also requested separate weekend and weekday data, Associate Director of Campus Rec Daniel A. Bennett assured us that “the usage graph would be fairly consistent” across the entire week.
Dillon Gym is open from 6 a.m. to 12 a.m. Monday through Thursday and closes at 10 p.m. on Fridays. On the weekends, it opens at 8 a.m. and closes at 10 p.m. on Saturday and 12 a.m. on Sunday.
In the Fall 2022 semester, Dillon Gym had on average 1275 visitors each day. During  weekdays, the busiest time of the day was 5:00 PM. Many students opt to work out early in the morning, with early activity spiking at 8:30 AM. Afterwards, once classes start for the day, the gym’s foot traffic declines, with very few visitors from 10 AM to 2 PM. After classes conclude around 4:30 PM, traffic peaks to 90 scans per half hour, making it the busiest time of day. Scans gradually decrease throughout the evening, but never to the same lows that can be seen during the morning’s “dead hours.”

The chart above represents the rate of students entering Dillon but does not account for the number of students actually on the gym floor during each time interval. Therefore, the most noticeable crowded hours may be offset by an additional few minutes from the peaks in this graph. Further, the data also includes non-Stephen Fitness Center users such as students playing pickup basketball, attending club meetings, and taking cycling classes.
“I would say [it gets] pretty crowded,” Desiree Rivers ‘26 told the ‘Prince’ before entering the Stephens Fitness Center, which sees the most use among students, “I would kind of like more space to do more open [exercises].”
Indeed, in the face of a larger student body, crowding in Dillion has become a more frequent complaint the University has noted.  Construction to expand the gym to add new entrances and more space for cardio workouts is currently underway.
Some students have also begun to catch onto the gym’s busy and dead hours. “I usually come to the gym in between my lunch period, at noon-ish,” Jonathan Roa ’26 told the ‘Prince’ during a 12:30 PM workout at Stephens. “Sometimes I’ll come in the morning, but recently, I’ve been coming in the afternoon and that’s actually when I’ll see the most people.” Jonathan specifically mentioned 6:00 PM as being the time he feels Dillion is the most crowded. Around that time, there are about 55 swipes to the gym, as shown in the graph.
Others have started going to Dillon later at night. Yoel Yacob ‘25 visits Dillon daily from 10 pm–12 am, which is when it closes. “It’s usually fine later in the week, but Monday and Tuesday nights are quite busy.”
Students have identified that weights and strength equipment have higher wait times than cardio equipment. “I’d say the downstairs [weight training] area is pretty busy,” says Yoel, “especially with the compound lifts like bench and squat stations.”
Katherine Khramtsov ‘26, a member of the Women’s Hockey team, has used both Dillon and Jadwin gyms. “When machines are open [in Jadwin], you can get your workout done quicker. In Dillon, it’s much harder. There’s limited machines, especially with the weight room.” Katherine says she usually goes during midday after visiting Dillon once at 4 PM and consequently "only did cardio because all the [weight] machines were closed.”
Many gym-goers suspect the beginning of the semester to be the busiest time for Dillion. “It’s the most crowded at the beginning of the year, you know, New Year’s resolutions and stuff like that,” says Jonathan. Yoel agrees, saying “the downstairs area was especially packed after New Years.” “I know at the beginning of the semester, it’s really hard to find a treadmill,” Desiree also points out.
Visitors were also asked how they felt about the ongoing expansion to Dillon Gym and  ways they felt Campus Rec could alleviate crowding. Yoel looks forward to the expansion but laments that the project, slated to be completed in Winter 2025, would not finish in time for the Class of 2025.
“Just leave somebody at the front door,” says Jonathan. “Open this gym up for 24 hours and then allow people to come in at whatever time they can.” Jonathan also noted that a 24-hour Dillon would allow people to get assignments done during the day and end their night off with a workout.
Yacoub Kahkajian is a contributing writer for the Data section of the ‘Prince.’
Daniel Wang is a contributing writer for the Data section of the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any corrections requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.After 18 months of construction, phase one of the new Class of 1986 Fitness and Wellness Center opened Monday, Jan. 29. The opening of the Recreational Pool, which was initially scheduled to reopen alongside the central fitness area, has been delayed until Friday, Feb. 16 due to “unforeseen circumstances.” Aside from the pool, the first of the three phases of renovations was completed on schedule.
The new fitness center contains 50 pieces of aerobic equipment, including 21 treadmills and four Peloton bikes, an increase from the 36 aerobic machines offered at Stephens Fitness Center, which closed on Dec. 23 for the renovations. The Peloton bikes are equipped with a commercial subscription, allowing gym goers to participate in online classes without the need for an individual Peloton account.
Campus Recreation celebrated the opening of the fitness center on Monday with “exclusive branded workout towel[s] and refreshments,” as well as tour every hour, starting at 10 a.m. The opening, which also coincided with the first day of classes for the semester, marked “one of the highest volume usage days of the year” according to Associate Director of Campus Rec, Facilities & Operations Dan Bennett.
Jessica Ward, senior Associate Director of Athletics for Campus Rec, told the ‘Prince’ that she is “really excited” about the new space. “We have a lot more pieces of equipment we never had before,” she said.
A new section of the gym is called the Six Minute Ab Zone. Equipment purchased from The Abs Company creates a circuit of exercises designed to provide a comprehensive and time-efficient abdominal muscle workout. The zone includes a traffic light intended to help patrons time their exercises, with a green light encouraging them to continue their exercise and a red light indicating when it’s time to switch machines. “It’s kind of like a game,” Ward told the ‘Prince,’ adding, “We wanted to try and get something completely different.”
Aside from these novel additions, the availability of more traditional strength training equipment, including dumbbells, benches, racks, bars, and plates, has nearly doubled. The plates weigh a combined total of more than 10,000 pounds.
The new fitness center now offers platforms, which enable patrons to perform a greater variety of weightlifting exercises. All exercise equipment is also now located in one 9,000 square foot space, a slight increase from the combined 8,000 square feet of space offered by the upper and lower levels of Stephens Fitness Center.
While Phase One of the Class of 1986 Fitness and Wellness Center includes many new pieces of equipment, there are some noticeable absences. Currently, the new fitness center does not have any selectorized machines that were offered previously in Stephens Fitness Center, which included machines for upper and lower body exercises. Also missing are the cable systems used for lat pulldown and cable rowing exercises, though there are two cable pulleys that can be used for different cable exercises.
Kate Luedtke ’27, who normally uses the gym five times per week, told the ‘Prince’ that she is most looking forward to using “more benches and better free weights” in the new fitness center, but noted that it “looks like it’s kind of low on cable machines” currently.
Despite these omissions, some students expressed that the new space marked an improvement.
Oliwia Morska ’24, who is employed by Campus Rec and works at the fitness center, told the ‘Prince’ that she is excited for “a proper workout space to accommodate everyone.”
Ward acknowledged that Campus Rec “know[s] that there are pieces that are missing right now,” but plans to remedy that issue with Phase Two of the renovations, which will include selectorized equipment and cardio machines like a self-powered treadmill. Ward explained that many of these new pieces of equipment are now possible due to the increased size of the center.
Phase Two, which is set to open in the fall, will also include a new accessible entrance and lobby — which is intended as a space where students can relax between class or a workout. Ward emphasized the importance of inclusivity in the space, saying that the Phase Two area won’t feel “very gym-ish.” She said that compared to Phase One, “it will have a different vibe,” explaining that Campus Rec is hoping to foster a “community center feel.”
In summer 2025, Phase Three will replace the current Stephens Fitness Center area with a space focused on functional training equipment, with “turf as a floor” and more space. Once all three phases are complete, the Class of 1986 Fitness and Wellness Center will be around 25,000 square feet.
Victoria Davies is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Vitus Larrieu is a News contributor and head Podcast editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.A power outage affecting electricity at 1903, Walker, and Feinberg Halls began today, Feb. 16, according to an email sent by University Housing Operations to residents of the three halls. Generators were set up to provide power to the three buildings by just after midnight.
The outage, which occurred around 2:30 p.m., has affected various systems, including electricity within dormitory rooms, laundry rooms, and kitchens, according to multiple students who spoke with The Daily Princetonian. Certain hallway and bathroom lights, heat systems, and keypads used to access individual rooms appeared to function as normal.
“We are aware of a power outage affecting 1903 Hall, Feinberg Hall and Walker Hall. Staff members from University Facilities are on site and attempting to affect repairs,” read an email sent by University Housing Operations at 3:20 p.m.
A second email sent at 9:31 p.m. offered students the chance to sleep in Dillon Gym overnight. Heating, emergency lighting, fire alarms, and access to exterior doors remained operative due to generators, according to the email. Students have been directed to Frist Campus Center and Firestone Library until 2 a.m. to charge mobile devices and to access Wi-Fi.
“Because the life safety and heating systems are working, it is safe to remain in the building,” the email reads. “For those students who choose not to remain in the buildings overnight and need a temporary housing arrangement, cots at Dillon Gym can be set up.”
At least six Department of Public Safety (PSafe) officers and University Facilities personnel, who declined to comment on the situation, responded to the outage but have not restored electricity at time of publication.
Makenna Marshall ’26, a resident of 1903 Hall, told the ‘Prince’ that she was “concerned about the food in [her] fridge,” which had lost power.
“This is a problem I expected in Houston, but not in New Jersey,” she said, referencing her hometown. “We’re supposed to have better infrastructure here.”
Unlike those of Feinberg and Walker Halls, the ID scanners on the outer doors of 1903 Hall stopped functioning.
Outside of 1903, Emma Dornseif ’25 told The Daily Princetonian that “there were PSafe officers hanging out around here, because we can’t even get into our rooms through these doors because the locks, the prox things, don’t work. They had to use an actual key to let us in.”
As students leaving 1903 Hall opened each door, PSafe and Facilities personnel propped open doors so residents stuck outside could access their dormitories.
1903 Hall resident Alexcis Johnson ’26 told the ‘Prince’ that she was surprised that backup electricity generators had not kicked in while the issue was being resolved.
“I know the weather is bad but this has never happened before,” she said. “I’m a little confused about the issue,” she added.
The ‘Prince’ could not independently verify that the outage was due to the weather. Princeton and the surrounding areas were under a high wind warning through Monday night.
Madilyn Zink ’26, also a 1903 Hall resident, was locked out of the building around 3:30 p.m. “I was in my room for a while, trying to make do without the power,” she told the ‘Prince.’ “I just left, not realizing I couldn’t get back in. Now I’m locked out,” she added.
Many students have declined the University’s offer to sleep in Dillon.
“I don’t know how I feel about that,” Diane Peck ’25, a resident of 1903, said. “I’m not sleeping on a cot, I’ll manage with my room.”
The power outage is not only limited to 1903, Walker, and Feinberg Halls, however.
Around the three halls, street lamps did not seem to have electricity, leaving the area very dark. Nassau Street experienced power outages, with walk signs not working, and some lights defaulted around 9 p.m. Additionally, students from Brown Hall, which was not affected by the power outage, reported no hot water in their dorms, while sidewalk lamps near 1903 Hall are also out. Students in 1903 also reported that hot water in the building was out.
“I think it’s a bit of a nuisance,” Peck added.
The Facilities Communications team did not respond to a request for comment by the time of publication.
Nico David-Fox is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Washington, D.C. and typically covers University operations.
Luke Grippo contributed reporting.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.After 19 months of closure and a delay due to “unforeseen circumstances” related to the shipment of materials to the construction site, the Campus Recreation Pool at Dillon Gymnasium reopened on Feb. 16. This marks another step towards the completion of phase one of Campus Recreation’s renovation project, which includes the renovation of the Class of 1986 Fitness and Wellness Center, which opened on Jan. 29, and new athletics facilities in the Meadows Neighborhood. The redesigned pool will allow for the return of open rec swim hours, Princeton Swim Club, and Campus Rec-sponsored activities, and prompted the revival of the annual Cardboard Canoe Race.
During the pool’s renovation, DeNunzio Pool — which is next to Jadwin Gymnasium — expanded its hours to accommodate all students who wanted to swim, including the Princeton Club Swim team. The availability of open swim hours on campus were reduced during the Dillon pool renovations, as DeNunzio typically serves as a space exclusively for the varsity swim and dive teams.
Renovations to the Rec Pool include the installation of a new filtration system, ceiling, lighting fixtures, tiling around the pool, grout between the pool tiles, and a new bulkhead between the wading pool and the lap pool. The next phase of renovations will introduce elevator access to the pool and other parts of Dillon Gym, making the gym facilities “more like 80 percent accessible.” The lobby and the two group fitness rooms above the lobby will remain inaccessible to wheelchair users.
Jessica Ward, Senior Associate Director of Athletics for Campus Rec, highlighted the importance of the improvements made to gym accessibility in an interview with The Daily Princetonian.
“It was always really hard to explain … to someone, ‘I’m sorry, I can’t get you to the pool,’” she said.
The re-opening of the Rec Pool has also allowed for expanded programming. After spring break, children’s swim lessons will begin, taught by students hired as swim instructors — a new campus job offering. Ward also detailed Campus Rec’s plans to offer swim lessons and “dive-in moves” to students and staff, as well as other efforts to bring people to the pool “even if you’re not a swimmer.”
Princeton Club Swim, which practiced in the Rec Pool team before its closure, has mixed feelings about their return to Dillon from DeNunzio. “In some ways [it’s] made our practice times a bit easier because it’s closer to where most people live,” Club Swim President Maddie Machado ’25 told the ‘Prince.’
Machado expressed her concerns about scheduling conflicts with open swim hours and varsity teams’ use of the Rec Pool.
“It’s been a bit of a puzzle to get times that are not crazy late at night,” she said. As a result, the team has had to reduce practice from five to four days per week.
Overall, the hours at the pool available for students to swim have increased. The open hours include 6:30–10:30 a.m. on weekdays and 1–4 p.m. and 5–7 p.m. during the weekend. On Sundays, there is a 45-minute block reserved for women’s only swim from 12–12:45 p.m. Following the opening of the Rec Pool, DeNunzio’s recreational swim hours have been reduced to Tuesdays and Thursdays from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m.
The re-opening of the pool prompted the resurrection of the annual Cardboard Canoe Race, marking the first time since 2019 that the race was held without pandemic mitigation procedures. 25 pairs of students formed teams to create and race a cardboard canoe, competing for the fastest time, best boat design, best capsize, and best costume.
The costume theme for this year was dynamic duos, inspiring participants to dress as a myriad of characters. Costumes included Donkey and Shrek, Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck, and the winners of the best costume competition, Spiderman and Doctor Octopus.
Two of the teams were sibling duos, each made up of a first year and senior who had participated in the race in a previous year. One of the teams, Joseph Roberts ’27 and Christopher Roberts ’24, received extra support from their father Chris Roberts, who was visiting from Outer Banks, N.C. to watch the race.
The winning team for fastest time was made up of first-year students Manuel Garcia San Millan ’27 and Ian Liu ’27. Their boat, “The Spanish Junk Armada,” consisted of a single flat sheet of cardboard that they used as a kickboard to swim their way to victory.
In a post-race interview, San Millan told the ‘Prince’ that his team “went into the cardboard boat race thinking, ‘What [does] the rule set actually say?’” He explained that there were no requirements to “paddle with a paddle.”
While their boat did not break any current rules, San Millan added that he was told a rule will be implemented next year to prevent their strategy.
“I’m happy that I have a rule named after me now. It’s a funny experience,” he joked.
Vitus Larrieu is a News contributor and head Podcast editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Between 7:30 each morning and eight at night, Princeton students flood the campus’s seven dining halls. Whether grabbing a pastry on the way to an early morning lecture, enjoying well-deserved cookies with their closest friends, or simply taking a quiet moment to recharge with a slice of cake, students consume around 6,000 desserts daily. While this big number may lead to assumptions that these desserts are mass imported by a faraway dessert company, this couldn’t be farther from the truth.
Hidden below the Rockefeller-Mathey dining hall lies a magical workshop of sweets called the RoMA bakery. Within this bakeshop, 100% of the residential college menus and around 90% of campus’s retail menus are made from scratch daily and shipped to residential dining halls and special events.
Powered by a tight-knit group of five bakers and two delivery people, the RoMa bakery is much akin to Princeton’s Area 51, except instead of possible aliens, it possesses a much more dangerous secret: over 60-year-old chocolate chip cookie recipes.
Marked only by an 8x11 inch piece of paper taped to a pipe above the basement entrance that reads “BAKESHOP,” the RoMa bakeshop is at first unassuming: a medium-sized room perpetually buzzing with the sounds of baking machinery and filled with heavenly smells of cookie dough and freshly baked brownies. The room has a large central wooden table, where bakers pour sheets of brownies, and baking machinery large enough to hold stacks of baked goods the height of an NBA player line the room’s perimeter. Except for a small test table in a corner, everything within the bakeshop feels massive compared to our kitchens at home.
The grand size of everything makes sense when considering the bakery’s immense production. The shop uses roughly 150 pounds of King Arthur flour each shift. The flour arrives in sealed bags that seem more appropriate for a Home Depot.
While most of the bakery’s machinery is remarkably vintage, with countless 50-year-old mixers, one clear exception is the bakery’s cookie machine. Purchased in 2023, the machine can make around 130 dozen cookies and store information on over 1,000 recipes.
Thanks to the machine, Executive Pastry Chef Michael DiLiberto shared in an interview with The Daily Princetonian, “Usually when we do a batch of cookies, it’s around 120 dozen, 130 dozen.”
To work it, a baker loads over 200 pounds of cookie dough into a large funnel on top, electronically sets the machine for the desired type of cookie, and then loads empty trays onto a conveyor belt below. Small balls are then dropped onto the pan under a giant metal vat of dough, which the machine spits out on the other end.
The bakers also use a dough shooter and two large, old mixers. Indeed, while the bakery’s new cookie machine represents an investment in increased productivity, this type of equipment change is rare.
“There’s not many moving parts on the inside,” DiLiberto said, referring to the over 50-year-old mixer. “If you fix them the right way, they will last a hundred years or so,” There is value in using the same old equipment “because it works,” he asserted.
However, beyond the bakery’s robust machinery and resources, the most impressive aspect of the RoMa Bake Shop is its people.
While Princeton students may grumble about getting out of bed for their 10 a.m., the five-person baking team, led by Executive Pastry Chef Michael DiLiberto, typically arrives every morning at 3 a.m., finishing their shifts around noon.
The bakery’s early hours and high-pressure environment could create a challenging work environment. Yet, the team is incredibly supportive of one another, with DiLiberto referring to the team as a ‘family.’ “The kitchen culture is a tight community. You have each other’s back because there’s no other way to get this type of production done. It’s something that keeps guys like us and women in the business for so long,” Gattis said.
Given the limited time and the massive volume of food required, the bakers are in a constant race against the clock. As Culinary Associate Director Michael Gattis puts it, “Dinner is at five. Lunch is at 11:30. There is no not getting [it] out on time.” In the end, their ability to consistently assemble quality goods all comes down to experience.
The high-quality result of the bakers’ work is a combination of science and instinct, balancing quality and quantity with experience. This experience is essential for many of the bakery’s 50-year-old and older recipes that often contain only a list of ingredients. The bakers simply have to know the method for mixing the dough and how to bake it.
The bakers also internalize the scientific nature of baking, adjusting their process as they bake to account for humidity and ingredient substitutions. Further, during Princeton’s summer downtime, the bakeshop experiments with new recipes and ingredients and modifies recipes for scale and new machinery.
“They’re tried, they’re tested, they’re approved, and then they go into our database,” Gattis explained.
While many of the bakeshop’s recipes rely on tried-and-tested methods, there is still room for innovation. For example, for Women’s History Month this year, the team pioneered baker Kayla Burg’s Chocolate Dirt Pudding recipe, one of her family’s favorite recipes, inspired by the time she spent helping her parents in their garden growing up. As they do with all family recipes, the bake shop worked with Kayla to preserve the integrity of her family recipe, while adapting to serve the whole campus, balancing family tradition with innovation.
In many ways, the bakeshop is a direct continuation of the ideals Princeton represents, blending tradition, innovation, and community. This message remained constant throughout the tour, perfectly embodied by Gattis’s comment, “Part of the scratch cooking is the campus dining’s initiative to move away from processed foods … for the health and wellness of our students. There’s a cost involved with it, but … it’s the right thing to do … it’s the Princeton Way.”
Learning from the bakers at RoMa Bakery revealed one of Princeton’s largest not-so-hidden secrets and demonstrated how the “Princeton way” applies to far more than just academics. As each of RoMa’s bakers demonstrates day in and day out, the Princeton Way is about challenging yourself, working for others, and educating yourself about the past to better the future. Therefore, the next time you grab a perfectly golden brown danish on a rush across campus, take a moment to appreciate the “heart and soul” that goes into it. As Gattis expressed, “Every bite that you take … you take a piece of [the staff] with you. And that’s what food is all about.”
Gavin McLoughlin, a member of the class of 2028, is an associate editor for The Prospect. He can be reached at gm9041@princeton.edu.
Annika Plunkett is a staff writer for The Prospect and a member of the Newsletter team. She can be reached at ap3616@princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.I have always had a deep affinity for figure skating. Although I don’t know how to skate myself, there is something beautiful about the grace and elegance of the sport. The sound of skates slicing through the ice, mingled with the fluidity of the movements and the synchronicity with the music, is magical to behold. Therefore, I was excited to watch the Princeton University Figure Skating Club’s performance called “Skating Through the Decades.” After immersing myself in the exciting atmosphere of the night and watching the wonderful performances, I left Baker Rink astonished by the talent of the members of the Princeton community.
I found the thematic homage to the decades to be very fun and exciting. I especially appreciated how each performance was rooted in and genuine to the decade they were representing, in terms of their costumes and music selection. I saw pieces musically accompanied by the likes of Frank Sinatra and Elvis, all the way up to Taylor Swift, and the selection truly paid homage to the authenticity of the night’s theme. The group performance that portrayed the 2000s, which repped the song “Wannabe,” was a crowd favorite as the skaters glided on the ice decked out in true Spice Girls style. I also appreciated the wide breadth of different styles that were represented. From beautiful traditional performances to contemporary freestyle, it was great to see all types of skating being recognized. The intersection of fashion and skating was also something that dazzled that night. From the previously mentioned Spice-Girls-esque ensemble to the beautiful sequin dresses that radiated in the spotlight magnificently, the beauty and thought that went into each outfit choice added sophistication and depth to an already memorable performance.
Extensive preparation, which is paramount for such an event, certainly came through in all the performances. Zachary Yaninek ’26, one of the ice skaters of the evening, shared some insights about his unique performance and his experience skating with the club.
"I skated to songs from ‘Saturday Night Fever.’ It was a program that I used when I was competing at the national level and was choreographed by two-time Ukrainian Olympian Irina Romanova,” Yaninek said. “I was happy that it received such a positive response from the Princeton audience this past weekend. This program was always one of my favorites, and it was particularly fun to skate it at Baker Rink. The Princeton Figure Skating Club gives me the opportunity to keep skating even though my competitive career has ended."
The professional caliber of each performer was something that shone during the entire evening. One could notice the evident concentration that went behind each intricate spin, jump, and glide executed by every skater while remaining in sync with the music. The beautiful choreography displayed a plethora of unique moves and techniques, keeping the show interesting and diverse throughout the night. From the sound and visuals in the rink to the audience’s pure joy and amusement, it was evident that one of the prevailing themes of the night’s performance was intense artistic passion.
I can wholeheartedly express that the production by the Princeton Figure Skating Club is something one should not miss out on. I am thrilled to get tickets for what they have to offer next year!
Anthony Nathan is a contributing writer for The Prospect, from San Francisco, California. He can be reached at an4373@princeton.edu or @anthony_nate_ on Instagram.
With spring here, Marley Hartnett-Cody, a contributing writer for The Prospect, explores the campus’s best outdoor study spots.
Associate Editor for The Prospect Gavin McLoughlin and Staff Writer for The Prospect Annika Plunkett take us inside the hidden basement bakery fueling Princeton’s dining halls with over 6,000 desserts a day.
Staff Writer for The Prospect Amanda Hugas analyzes campus fashion through the lens of backpacks, bags, and totes.Last week, Princeton Men’s Hockey (6–6–1 overall, 3–4–1 ECAC) faced the No. 20 University of New Hampshire (10–4–3 overall, 2–3–2 HEA) in back-to-back games at Baker Rink. After a string of five victories, the Tigers lost both games against the Wildcats: 3–0 on Friday night and 4–3 on Saturday.
Princeton goes scoreless in 3–0 loss to New Hampshire on Friday evening
The Friday night game between Princeton and New Hampshire was much closer than the score suggested. The Tigers and Wildcats were locked in a dead heat and scoreless in the first two periods.
The first period began with both teams laying early pressure and attacking each others’ goal. New Hampshire’s Josh Player had the first shot of the game within the first two minutes, ultimately saved by sophomore goalie Arthur Smith. Smith made two more saves within the first three minutes before Princeton mounted their first major attack as senior defender Noah de la Durantaye’s shot was saved by New Hampshire’s Jared Whale.
The Tigers had two more shots on goal that were ultimately saved by Whale in the first 11 minutes. The trend continued throughout the period as both teams pressed on the other’s respective goal.
The second period began in a similar fashion, but Princeton earned the first power play of the game after a cross-checking penalty by the Wildcats’ Colton Huard. Ultimately, the Tigers were not able to take advantage, and the Wildcats had the only shot in Princeton’s power play.
The major incident of the period occurred when a New Hampshire player collided with Smith, leading to a brawl between both teams. Smith was able to continue after a delay where the referees used video review to penalize both teams, and resulting in a Princeton power play. Once again, though, the Tigers were not able to capitalize as the game headed into the third period, scoreless.
Within the first five minutes of the third period, the Wildcats opened the scoring with a move by Ryan Conmy. Although the Tigers tried to respond with a chance of their own by first-year forward Miles Gunty, his quick shot was saved by Whale. New Hampshire scored their second goal with five minutes remaining in the period by Robert Cronin and finally capped it off with an open net goal for their third as Princeton tried to respond. The Tigers ended the game with 15 shots on goal while the Wildcats had 19.
“It kind of seemed like the first goal was going to determine the outcome of that one,” junior forward Brendan Gorman told The Daily Princetonian about the first game. “So, the first two periods were solid. It was kind of a back-and-forth game. And then they were able to pop the first one there.”
“They did a good job of getting it behind our [defense] and kind of sending their wingers out at our [defense],” Gorman continued.
Tiger come up just short in Saturday's 4–3 thriller
Saturday’s game was far more competitive than Friday’s — New Hampshire took control in the first period while Princeton dominated in the second. In the first five minutes of the first period, the Wildcats scored as Jack Babbage fired past sophomore goalie Ethan Pearson.
New Hampshire continued to dominate the first period, testing the Princeton defense. Jason Siedem notched the second goal for the Wildcats, and Ryan Conmy gave the third with three minutes remaining in the first period. After just 20 minutes in the game, their offense led the Wildcats to an impressive 3–0 lead, outshooting the Tigers 8–2 in the first period.
Facing a large deficit, Princeton needed a response in the second period, and the Tigers mounted an impressive comeback. Gorman got the Tigers on the scoreboard within the first minute of the period with a low shot past Whale. The Tigers continued their impressive attack with junior defenseman Tyler Rubin reducing the deficit to just one after a breakaway opportunity.
With the momentum on the Tiger’s side and the crowd in Baker Rink cheering them on, junior forward David Jacobs equalized with 10 minutes remaining, exciting the crowd. Soon after, Pearson would step up for the Tigers making big saves in the game to keep the score even at 3–3.
To inspire the comeback, Gorman said that Head Coach Ben Syer emphasized staying level-headed and calm. “[It] worked out. So we were able to get three there and have a good mentality and have a close game there,” he told the ‘Prince.’
Jacobs elaborated on how the group was able to do it. “It was great resilience by our group and am proud of the guys. [We] would stick together,” he said. “And every guy in that room contributed to that second period.”
“I think it just shows a character in the room that there’s never quit,” Syer reflected to the ‘Prince’. “You don’t want to get down two goals, let alone three goals in the first period, and be able to keep grinding away.”
“They put a lot of trust in each other. They simplified things and got pucks down to the net quicker. They drove the net and had more of a net presence on a regular basis,” he continued.
The third period proved to be more of a balanced affair from both sides, with both Princeton and New Hampshire searching for the winning goal. Nikolai Jenson scored for the Wildcats with 12 minutes remaining in the third period. Despite a shot by the Tigers that hit the post directly after, they were not able to equalize once more, losing the game 4–3. Overall, the Tigers were outshot 30–15, but they had the advantage in faceoffs, 32–25.
“We talked a lot this morning about finding ways to score, getting more pucks on net, being more poised with the puck of the blue line, and honestly been trying to get on the score sheet, find my first one,” Jacobs told the ‘Prince.’
“Luckily [I] found it, and hopefully keep contributing, because of the direction we have to move in,” he added, referring to his impressive one goal, two assist performance.
About the game overall, Jacobs said, “I think it’s first of all, a good lesson. We got to have better starts. Play a full 60 minutes. I’m proud of the group, how we fought back in the second. Played a solid third but have to play a full 60 — we’re playing a good team like we were this [past] weekend.”
The Tigers have another doubleheader coming up this weekend, this time against No. 18 Quinnipiac (11–7–1, 6–3–0 ECAC), with one game at Baker Rink on Friday and the other in Connecticut on Saturday.
Keyan Vojdani is a Sports contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Princeton’s Vision and Learning Lab, led by professor Jia Deng, suffered a several-thousand dollar theft of computer equipment at the Friend Center on Oct. 26.
Six Nvidia RTX 4090 graphics processing units (GPUs) were stolen from the lab. GPUs are a kind of specialized processor, originally designed to accelerate graphics rendering, which have come to be used in machine learning, video editing, and gaming applications, as well as in the production of artificial intelligence (AI). With each GPU estimated to cost at around $1,800, the stolen equipment had a total value of around $10,800, according to Lahav Lipson GS, a current Ph.D. student at the Vision and Learning Lab.
Lipson wrote in an email to The Daily Princetonian that he and his colleagues “were very surprised” by the theft of the GPUs, noting that “People leave expensive equipment unguarded in the Friend Center all the time without issue.”
Prior to the theft, he noted that the lab had been debating purchasing a “computer cage” to protect the GPUs, which would have enabled them to keep the equipment “under lock and key.” But ultimately, the researchers had decided against it, since at the time, “that sounded ridiculous,” Lipson wrote. However, he admitted that in hindsight it “would’ve been the smart thing to do.”
The theft was reported to the Department of Public Safety (DPS) at 2:31 p.m. on Oct. 26, according to its crime logs, and was estimated to have taken place between 4 p.m. on Oct. 25 and 2 p.m. on Oct. 26. In his lab’s Slack channel, Deng asked for other members “to help narrow down the time interval of the theft,” according to screenshots obtained by the ‘Prince.’ At least one member of the lab reported that they did not observe anyone enter the lab from 7:15 to 8:40 p.m. on Oct. 25.
When asked about the steps that the Vision and Learning Lab would be taking to prevent theft in the future, Lipson wrote that he did not feel as though “much will or need to change” in terms of lab security, besides the researchers “better securing [their] desktop computers.” He explained that the nature of the equipment itself, not just the security or practices in the lab, contributed to the theft since, in comparison to other equipment, “GPUs are especially vulnerable to theft,” because they are “very valuable, lightweight, and easy to sell.”
Deng, the head of the lab, did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
DPS opened an investigation into the theft of the GPUs, which is still ongoing.
When asked for comment by the ‘Prince,’ University spokesperson Jennifer Morrill wrote “This theft was reported to DPS and the incident is under investigation. As this is an open investigation, we are unable to comment further. We encourage all members of our community to review the Safety & Security tips on our website, and to contact the department at 609-258-1000 if you have any information about this incident.”
Leela Hensler is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Princeton’s campus hosts a diverse range of classroom environments, from lecture halls with projection technologies to seminar rooms with round tables. With course selection occurring this week, students are in the midst of planning their Fall semester schedules — including the rooms where they will be learning. We broke down the classrooms on campus, analyzing occupancy, technology, and location.
Classroom booking, scheduling, and access is organized through the Office of the Registrar. However, outside of teaching hours, classrooms are frequently vacant and accessible to students, faculty, and staff for study sessions, meetings or other purposes.
Around 62 percent of all available learning spaces hold 25 people or fewer. Medium-sized classrooms are slightly less common on campus, with 30 percent of rooms having maximum occupancies in the 26-99 person range. Lecture halls and large conference spaces exist in far fewer numbers, at just under eight percent of classroom spaces, or 24 total high-occupancy spaces. McCosh 50 has the highest occupancy out of all classrooms, having a maximum capacity of 447 students. The three most enrolled classes this semester — POL 396: International Organizations, ENG 304: Children’s Literature, and COS 126: Computer Science: An Interdisciplinary Approach — all hold their lectures in McCosh 50.
The University sorts rooms into four categories: standard classrooms, seminar rooms, lecture halls, and bowls. Standard classrooms, characterized by a presenter setup and a small number of row-by-row desk arrangements, are most common. These are followed by seminar rooms, then lecture halls and bowl classrooms. Bowl classrooms are unique to Robertson Hall, which houses the School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA), and feature a sunken-row arrangement and presenter-focused stage.
Standard classrooms most frequently host precepts, capped-enrollment class sections, or office hours. Seminar rooms, however, are mostly dedicated to courses taught seminar-style — usually three-hour small-group blocks during an afternoon weekly class time. The Office of the Registrar usually caps enrollment of courses that use these seminar rooms to 15 students.
The classrooms at Princeton span 63 buildings across campus. With 20 available classroom spaces each, McCosh Hall and Green Hall host the highest concentration of rooms. However, the distribution of rooms is not dominated by any select buildings.
The ten buildings with the most rooms collectively contain approximately 24 percent of Princeton’s classrooms. Among these buildings are Friend Center, Fine Hall, and Julis Romo Rabinowitz (JRR), which span across multiple departments and disciplines, being home to the Computer Science, Mathematics, and Economics programs, respectively.
“The seminar rooms in East Pyne are my favorite,” said Christine Guo ’26, who notes some of her favorite courses and precepts in the East Asian Studies department were hosted there. “The all-wood paneling in the rooms feels cozy and the smaller size makes the discussions more intimate.” She noted that in some of the larger lecture halls, “it’s sometimes more intimidating to speak up and participate in a room full of 200 people.”
In deciding where to host classes, precepts, or study sessions, students and faculty may consider the technology installed in a classroom, including its compatibility with laptops, projection, or wireless displays.
The Registrar’s classroom data showed that out of 301 classrooms, a whopping 200 — or about 67 percent — now support wireless Apple TV or AirPlay connections, allowing users to display contents of their device screens to the room’s setup without cords. Of the remaining 101 classrooms, 88 host wireless or cable connections, allowing for the same display system, just requiring cable hardware. Only 13, or four percent of all Princeton classrooms, have no Audio/Visual system support — that is, they do not contain tools such as projectors, screens, or microphones.
Professor of History and International and Regional Studies Michael Laffan appreciates Apple TVs as a way of integrating visuals into the classroom, noting that “it’s a lot less clunky than when a few years ago, we had to deal with multiple [forms of] media, which included CD Players, and even VHS tapes.”
In addition to including access to various forms of technology, almost 70 percent of Princeton classrooms also contain blackboards.
Laffan equally appreciates the presence of blackboards in the classroom. He emphasizes that “it’s important to have such physical infrastructure” for the purpose of recording “impromptu brainstorms” or making students draw a map.
Size, location, and available technology have the potential to influence classrooms’ roles as spaces for study sessions, club engagement, and discussion. As students think about upcoming course enrollment in the Fall, the features of their courses’ classrooms may help them decide if the structure of their class will be the best learning environment for their programs of study.
Chima Oparaji is a contributing Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Lauren Zaidel is a contributing Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
This Valentine’s Day, we at The DailyPrintsAnything feel obligated to provide lonely Princetonians some help to find that special someone. Although we can’t ensure everyone a date, here are our top tips for those tigers who are single and ready to mingle.
1. Try being Dean’s date
The campus community recently learned that, after twenty five years, Dean’s date has been dumped; that means there's a hot new bachelor on campus! While we can’t point you in the right direction to find Dean, we’re sure he or she or they or it will not be hard to find. Just imagine being Dean’s new date - you would be the talk of town, from the start of the semester to the end — even your professors will be talking about it. However, we’ve heard that, over the years, people tend to lose their minds around Dean’s date, so stay safe and take shelter in the arms of your new hot piece.
2. Love at Frist site
With the newly completed Frist Health Center, many couples are already using a plethora of free resources such as STI testing or free condoms. However, you’re a lonely fool who has no need for such wares — until now. We suggest that you go to the new health center and just stand around any resources for sexual health, looking confused. Sooner rather than later, your future partner could stumble in and see that you’re a responsible sexpert. Wouldn’t this make a great story at your wedding? Regardless of your failure or success, you can still tell your friends that, technically, you got Fristed.
3. You’ve got a Friend in me
If all else fails, go to the one place on campus that declares itself the home of social life: the Friend Center. As long as you have armed yourself with Axe body spray and a gas mask, take the opportunity to mingle with your peers and try to find a potential suitor. As you enter the Friend-zone, talk to as many people as you can and find those with common interests like RPG games, anime, manga, and artificial intelligence. If, in the worst case scenario, you fail to find your special someone, you will still walk away educated in LLMs (love language models).
Remember, even if none of these tips work for you, it is perfectly acceptable to be alone on Valentine’s Day. Speaking from experience, we think love is a lot like Princeton: hard to get into and not meant for everyone.
Tarun Iyengar is an Associate Humor Editor. He wishes his “pookie bears” a wonderful Valentine’s Day. He can be reached at ti7371@princeton.edu.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.While all papers, projects, and problem sets were due on Dean’s Date, the work was not over for students enrolled in the 133 courses that had in-person final examinations, out of 1332 total courses. All final exams took place this semester between Friday, May 12 and Thursday, May 18.
Scheduled final exams, once nearly-universal among courses, now have a variety of alternatives.  Humanities courses are more likely to assign a term paper due on Dean’s Date and courses in engineering may assign an open-book take-home exam or final project.
The change has implications for disciplinary proceedings. While violations of academic integrity during scheduled exams are adjudicated by the student-run Honor Code, other forms of assessment have violations referred to the Committee on Discipline, which is not run by students.
The Daily Princetonian analyzed the past three semesters’ final exam schedules. These semesters are the ones with fully in-person exams after the COVID-19 pandemic. A surge in cases made most finals remote after a mostly in-person semester in Fall 2021. Cross-listed courses are counted towards the first department listed. Courses satisfying multiple distribution requirements are counted towards both distributions.
Exams skew towards the natural sciences, language courses and intro level courses and tend to be held in McCosh Hall, East Pyne Hall, and the Friend Center.  Schedules have varied by years, with more evening exams this term.

Finals are more common for intro courses. 100-level courses, primarily large intro courses, were the most likely to have scheduled finals, with 18.62 percent of 100-level courses having finals. In contrast, only 5.94 percent of 400-level courses, which skew towards small seminars, had scheduled finals.
The biggest indicating factor for whether a course has a scheduled final or not is its field. Within distribution requirements, those with primarily STEM courses ⸺Quantitative and Computational Reasoning (QCR) and Science and Engineering with and without a lab (SEN/SEL)  ⸺ were most likely to have a final. 52.38 percent of SEN courses had finals as compared to 1.19 percent of the University’s newest distribution requirement, Culture and Difference.
The departments with scheduled final exams were dominated by language departments with some departments approaching 100 percent of classes with final exams in the semesters analyzed. The relative rankings between language departments have varied each semester.  The Integrated Science Curriculum (ISC), a specific curriculum for first-years with its own department code also ranked among the language departments.
Of non-language departments, the departments with the most scheduled exams were primarily STEM disciplines, with economics being the only exception. Interestingly, the departments were also all in the natural sciences, including physics, chemistry, mathematics, and quantitative and computational biology.  No engineering departments made the list, possibly because some courses in engineering assign final projects instead of exams.
The most popular buildings for final exams included  East Pyne Hall  ⸺  home to a number of primarily humanities departments ⸺ , the Friend Center, and McCosh Hall. According to Princeton Conference and Events Services, McCosh Hall, where 16 courses held their finals this semester, is the “most ‘quintessentially Princeton’ building.” In this spirit, McCosh Hall contains the University's two largest lecture halls, McCosh 50 and McCosh 10, with 465 and 350 seats, respectively. Four of the sixteen courses whose finals were held in McCosh hall required two exam rooms for the exam.
“Students are required to sit in every other seat for final exams,” University spokesman Michael Hotchkiss said in an email to the ‘Prince’. “We do not have classrooms large enough for all students of bigger lecture courses to all sit in the same room for an exam with every other seat being empty, therefore we schedule multiple rooms for these exams.”
East Pyne Hall, where 13.5 percent of in-person final exams took place, contains many small and medium classrooms, with only one room having a capacity of over 60 people.
Friend Center and the Computer Science building are connected and, if counted together, those buildings hosted the most finals for Spring 2023 with 21 exams total.
Final exams are in three hours slots, starting at 9:00 a.m., 1:30 p.m., or 7:30 p.m. Over 30 percent of finals analyzed began at 7:30 p.m. Students with a 9:00 a.m. final the morning after a night final cannot postpone one of these two exams. Final exam policy states postponements may only be requested for religious observance, multiple finals in one day, or three exams over a two day period.
“An optimization tool is used to determine a schedule that minimizes conflicts between exams within the exam policy,” Hotchkiss wrote. “The time blocks are set to allow for required exam seating of three hours with as much time between as possible for meals, classroom change over, and accommodation requirements.”
The percentage of evening finals seems to vary by semester. In the Fall 2022 semester, evening finals only occurred on the first four days, and made up 14 percent of total finals, as compared to 31 percent of total finals during Spring 2023 spread across all seven days of the finals period.
“Final exams are scheduled at specific times set by the registrar’s office to make efficient use of the seven days of the exam period,” Hotchkiss said.
Fifteen final exams during the Spring 2023 semester began at 9:00 a.m. on weekend days. To have breakfast before these exams, students’ only option was the Whitman College dining hall, open for breakfast on weekends from 7:30 a.m. until 9:30 a.m., while all other dining halls open only for brunch at 10:00 a.m. or 11:00 a.m.
The last day of final exams was Thursday, May 18.
Andrew Bosworth is a Data contributor for the ‘Prince’.
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.After a year of closure, students were welcomed to south campus this semester with the re-opening of Poe and Pardee Fields. This news has led to greater convenience and accessibility for New College West (NCW) and Yeh residents, providing a space for student groups to hold events, and allowing for downtime and recreation.
The reopening comes following the fields being closed from June 2023 to August 2024 as a result of the construction project to upgrade Princeton’s geo-exchange energy system. The system allows summer heat from buildings to be stored underground in 850-foot-deep bores, part of a shift away from reliance on steam energy and towards renewable energy sources.
New underground stormwater chambers were also built to hold excess water in case of heavy rain and flood. The infrastructure for these projects was installed underneath Poe and Pardee Fields, which was then topped by new grass and landscaping.
Poe and Pardee Fields are two of the only large informal outdoor recreation spaces in the south campus area, making the impact of their closure more prominent for students living near the construction. The path that cuts through the fields was also closed during construction, making navigating to Yeh and NCW colleges more difficult.
“It was so sad. Honestly, having to first walk around [the construction] every day just to get to class was just kind of a massive time commitment,” Bennett Opie ’27 told The Daily Princetonian.
Because Poe Field was closed for over a year, this semester marks the first time members of the Class of 2027 have been able to use the fields during their time at Princeton, creating a divide in experiences between classes.
“It was something that I had envied a lot, because all the upperclassmen said how beautiful it was,” Fatiha Haider ’27 told the ‘Prince.’
Many of the students the ‘Prince’ spoke to remarked on how the fields can help facilitate community interaction, becoming a place for pick-up soccer games, sunny study sessions, and leisure. During its closure, some intramural sports teams, including Club Ultimate Frisbee, had to find alternative areas for areas for pickup games and practices.
In the spring of 2023, when construction was about to begin, the ‘Prince’ reported the impact of Poe Field’s closure. Then captain of Ultimate Frisbee Alex Baroody ’23 noted how the construction on Poe field would be “a lot harder for us to get new people to join our club… Just having those pickup games be visible brought a lot of our team to the game of Ultimate.”
Trace Zhang ’26, co-president of Hemlock Ultimate Frisbee, described to the ‘Prince’ how the club has recently been using Poe Field to “have a throwing session and meet potential new members alongside Clockwork, the men’s team…and we also might have some pickup games coming up,” something they were unable to do during its closure.
“Now that Poe’s open again, we have been using it for more casual play, which has been really really great,” they added.
Poe Field also provides student groups with a space to organize and hold larger events for the student body. The Princeton Astronomy Club held a lunar eclipse viewing party on Tuesday, Sept. 17, inviting students to come together on the grass of Poe Field.
“We wanted people to just come outside and gather outside Poe Field. It’s like a really nice atmosphere here, talking about astronomy,” secretary of the Princeton Astronomy Club Harish Krishnakumar ’27 told the ‘Prince.’
On the lawn, students sat with friends and mingled with new acquaintances, as they waited for the clouds to clear up and give them a view of the moon. Krishnakumar noted that the location was a change from last semester, when they held events in the Forbes backyard.
“A lot of people walk by in this direction. Once they see telescopes out and people gathered, it’s, like, really convenient for people to congregate here,” he said.
As Haider stated, “This is the type of college campus life that you see in the picture books or movies or TV shows. And it’s so, it’s so exciting to like, actually be living it.”
Vitus Larrieu is a senior News writer and Head Podcast editor for the ‘Prince.’
Nikki Han is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.For residents of the southern part of Princeton’s campus, the campus construction is unlikely to subside any time soon.
The University announced that the opening of Hobson College (on the site of the former First College) will be pushed back to 2027 from its originally scheduled 2026 opening date. Further, the University announced that Poe Field, a popular gathering spot for students, will be under construction starting after Reunions 2023 and is expected to take “more than a year.”
Some students and student groups have expressed concerns regarding the timing and scope of the projects.
The Poe Field project, which will put Poe Field under renovation for at least three semesters, is part of the University’s goal of becoming carbon neutral by 2046.
In an email to The Daily Princetonian regarding the Poe Field project, University Spokesperson Michael Hotchkiss wrote, “the construction will include a previously approved underground storm-water detention system required to support the storm-water design for the current University Health Services project (due to be completed by winter 2025), and for the upcoming Schmidt Hall project (anticipated start of summer 2025).”
Some club sports teams are concerned about the closure of Poe Field. The club Ultimate Frisbee team uses Poe Field as a practice location and considers the central location of Poe Field as a benefit during recruitment.
“A big chunk of our incoming class every year is people who have never played Ultimate before,” says Alex Baroody ’23, one of the captains of Princeton Ultimate Frisbee. With construction on Poe Field, Baroody says that it will be “a lot harder for us to get new people to join our club … Just having those pickup games be visible brought a lot of our team to the game of Ultimate.”
Hotchkiss noted that it “is not feasible” to only have construction on Poe Field over the summer, and that “it is less impactful to complete the construction consecutively in one phase instead of breaking it up over multiple summers or stages.”
He added that the University “understand[s] that this work will impact many groups on campus who currently use Poe Field, as well as students and staff who will live in the dorms that surround Poe Field this summer and the next academic year.” He stated that the University will “provide regular updates regarding the construction and related impact, but also provide information on alternate temporary locations for club, pickup sports, and other recreation.”
Many students living in the new colleges cross Poe Field to get to the rest of campus. Zach Lee ’26, the Communications Lead for Yeh College Council, is concerned that with the construction of Poe Field, students of the nearby residential colleges are losing an “integral location” where they have been able to “relax, picnic, and play sports.”
Lee is a contributing News and podcast writer for the ‘Prince.’
“The construction on Poe Field will definitely make this challenging for students to continue in the future or may even possibly stop these activities for good until construction has cleared,” Lee said.
With the opening of Hobson delayed, construction will last longer at the site just north of Poe Field. According to Hotchkiss, this delay is a result of the fact that “several of the First College dorms that encompass the Hobson site were used as temporary housing assignments during the fall semester when move-in for a portion of Yeh and NCW residents was delayed.” Accordingly, construction did not begin on schedule.
Hotchkiss confirmed that all “housing or impacted buildings [will be] notified [of construction] and asked to send messages to residents or building occupants that will be directly impacted.”
Residents of Scully Hall will live between the Poe field construction and the ongoing construction of Hobson College. Hannah Even ’25, a future resident of Scully Hall, was “not excited about” being surrounded by construction and the early start time of construction noise, particularly on the weekends.
According to Hotchkiss, campus construction will begin at “7 a.m. during weekdays and 8 a.m. on Saturdays.”
Despite the delay in opening Hobson, the University does not expect any delay in its implementation of the four-year expansion plan to increase Princeton’s undergraduate student body by 500 students. Hotchkiss noted that “the introduction of NCW and Yeh provides the swing space” that is needed to stay on target with the expansion of the student body.
Madeleine Lebeau is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.With the University’s extensive varsity, club, and intramural sports programs, Princeton students have no shortage of options for athletic field usage on campus, even as Poe Field remains under construction until the end of the summer. As the weather gets warmer, field utilization will only increase.
The Daily Princetonian examined the 5,306 reservations on seven multi-purpose athletic facilities made by both Princeton University Athletics and Princeton University Campus Recreation over Spring 2022, Spring 2023, and Spring 2024.
The Bubble over Powers Field, constructed at the culmination of each football season and taken down mid-spring, consistently maintains the most reservations year-over-year. The Bubble covers the entirety of Powers Field in Princeton’s Stadium, creating a climate-controlled environment for teams to practice year-round. This year’s final reservation before its removal was a varsity athletics practice scheduled by Princeton Athletics on April 8.
White Peff ’03 Field — the newest field addition to Princeton’s campus — has been the least versatile in its utilization, as all of its reservations this spring have been for varsity athletics.
Plummer Field, located east of Yeh College and New College West serves as the most versatile athletics field on the list serving a significant number of reservations from each department. Plummer Field maintains the highest percentage of intramural sports reservations — 6.44 percent — while still having a strong club and varsity sports presence on the turf field.
“Plummer is commonly used for [outdoor] intramurals,” said Yeh Intramurals Activity Chair Caleb Williams ’26 in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ “It used to be Poe Field that was used all the time and Dillon [Gym] for all the indoor sports.”
“The biggest benefit is giving people a break from the busyness of class,” said club Flag Football president Evan Alfandre ’25 in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ “[People have] a lot of work going on, and just being able to forget about that for a couple hours every week is really valuable for me.”
A majority of reservations each year occur on weekdays. In 2024, the most reservations were made for Wednesdays, accounting for 282 of the total 1,520 reservations made in 2024 — almost 19 percent. Teams often hope to hold weekday practices allowing a busy Princeton student to forget about their impending deadlines for a couple hours and get some physical activity.
“[Intramurals] give us a nice study break, something different and also allows people to interact with others that they don’t know very well,” Williams said.
Over years, varsity reservations remained relatively constant, with the most varsity use on Sherrerd Field, Campbell/Finney Fields, and the Bubble. Outside groups are also able to reserve the fields.
“Seven to nine [in the evening] is the prime practice time and a lot of people tell me they don’t like our nine to eleven practice time… The fact that they’re giving the most valuable club sport practice time to an outside organization — it’s frustrating,” Alfandre mentioned. “And then when we’re outside on Campbell/Finney … it’s just frustrating because we are freezing and they get to use the indoor space,” he said.
During times of financial struggles for club sports, with teams declining invitations for games that are too far away, they also face difficulties at home with barriers to field reservations.
“I think one of the big issues with the process of how we make reservations is that on the Google Form you just say when you want to practice,” Alfandre said, mentioning there are three slots where you rank the best times that work for your club. “I think it makes it hard for them [Campus Recreation] to actually get everyone what they want, which is why we probably end up not getting what we want.”
Campus Recreation did not directly respond to the complaints regarding the reservation system and said that they only have oversight when it comes to scheduling spaces in Dillon and Plummer Field.
Vincent Etherton is a contributing Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.There are no fewer than 11 construction projects currently underway on Princeton University campus. All are expected to be completed between the fall of 2023 and spring of 2027 according to the University's construction timeline.
Some of the projects include the development of the Meadows Neighborhood, the expansion of the University Health Services (UHS), and the TIGER and Central Utility buildings, both which are central to the geo-exchange project and the University’s goal of achieving net-zero emissions by 2046.
Those most central on the college campus and to students’ everyday lives include Hobson College, the development of Dillon Gym, the renovation of the Art Museum, the construction of the new building complex for environmental studies and the School of Engineering and Applied Science, and the work on Poe Field. The Daily Princetonian looked at these projects and their projected completion timeline.
Students moved into Yeh College and New College West, the first among the University’s plans for renovation of existing dorms and housing more upperclassmen, in the fall semester of 2022. Hobson College is a continuation of these plans. The construction of the college is set to be complete in 2027, a delay from the University's initial 2026 projection. The complex is located between the University Health Service (UHS) and Elm Drive, on the site of the former First College.
University spokesperson Michael Hotchkiss described some of the features that students can expect from Hobson College in an email sent to The Daily Princetonian. He said, “the college will house 500 students and include a mix of first-year, sophomore and upper-class rooms and suites.”
The college is also set to contain various social spaces. Plans for the residential college are focused on accessibility, inclusion, and collaboration. Hotchkiss added that the “Hobson College construction will also improve site accessibility, providing east-west connections as well as additional accessible connections up campus and through the new facility.”
Some of the sustainability focuses of Hobson College are the use of stormwater bio-retention systems, geo-exchange technology, and native and adaptive vegetation.
In the vicinity of Hobson College, other construction projects may end earlier. The expansion of UHS is set to be completed on winter 2025, which will include an expansion to promote a more holistic view of wellbeing it will be adjacent to the current McCosh building in Eno Hall, while the current McCosh Health Center might be used for student life. Schmidt Hall, a new computer science building on the site of Guyot Hall should be finished by the summer of 2025.
The construction around Dillon Gym is anticipated to be completed by the winter of 2025. The project is an expansion and renovation of the current facilities. Students still have access to parts of the facilities while construction proceeds.
“The Class of 1986 Fitness and Wellness Center project includes an addition that will house new fitness areas and workout studios,” Hotchkiss said.
The project also includes the renovation of the south portion of the A level and the Stephens Fitness Center. Hotchkiss noted that “the renovation will create additional recreation and fitness options.” He added that “recreational use of the pool will be available once again when it re-opens in Spring 2024.”
According to the University website, the overall goal of the expansion and renovation is to provide opportunities for a larger campus community and “[increase] accessibility to most of the building from the pool up to the main gym.”
Hotchkiss described some of the sustainable construction techniques being used on the gym which include: the use of mass timber as a low-carbon alternative to concrete and steel; natural ventilation; and the incorporation of green roofs as stormwater management strategies.
The construction of a new Art Museum building was announced in 2018 and started in the summer of 2021. With construction at a central location on campus, this project is most notable in terms of noise, obstructions, and effect on aesthetics.
The renovation is set to increase gallery exhibition areas by 38 percent and provide visible storage which will allow easier access to the collections. The new Museum will encompass the former Art Museum, Department of Art and Archaeology, and the Marquand Library. According to the plans, it is set to “bring the University community together and serve as a cultural gateway to the Princeton campus for the wider public.”
The building is expected to be complete in 2024 according to the construction timeline, although the Art Museum will not open until the spring of 2025. Regardless, the Princeton community can hope to be able to see the Museum’s expansive collections again within the next two years.
The University’s goal of achieving net-zero emissions by 2046 is a large focus for many of the ongoing construction projects. The work on Poe Field is a crucial part of this goal.
This construction project is focused on the implementation of geo-exchange and stormwater systems. Hotchkiss noted that “1,500 geo-exchange bores [are] planned for central campus as a part of the campus infrastructure conversion,” and the construction on Poe Field includes the installation of nearly 400 of these geo-exchange bores. A further 300 geo-exchange bores have been installed on the Hobson College site and Whitman Lawn area. The geo-exchange system these bores support reduces the campus energy footprint by using the ground as a renewable heat source in winter and heat sink in summer.
Hotchkiss said “Poe Field construction is anticipated to be complete by Fall 2024 and will include the full restoration of Poe Field as a campus recreation and social space.” This is a more ambitious timeline than the University previously projected, initially suggesting the project would take three semesters, or lasting until Spring 2025.
A major project south of Prospect Street, the construction of a new campus village for engineering departments is one of the most ambitious parts of the campus plan. A series of new buildings will host four engineering departments. The complex is set to open in 2025 as well. While the new buildings will open, the transition away from the current E-Quad may take longer: new buildings for the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and other relevant centers and departments are still prospective and have not been started.
In plans, the University has highlighted the community elements of the new complex and integration with the rest of campus.
Hotchkiss addressed a number of the concerns regarding construction raised by the student body.
“Updating residential colleges that are no longer programmatically up to standard will be considered for the next capital plan,” he wrote. “Students will have input into these projects as they evolve.”
The first phase of the 10-year dormitory replacement program was completed over the summer, including — according to Hotchkiss — “the installation of over 1,000 casegood furniture sets and in-suite living room furniture” in nine dormitories within Rockefeller and Mathey College. This furniture has already been deployed in New College West and Yeh College and is set to be included in other residential colleges and upperclassmen housing across campus within the next ten years.
Hotchkiss said that “no new projects are scheduled to begin in the immediate future” but warned students that they may see more effects of the current construction plans. Hotchkiss referenced a recent Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) meeting where Associate Vice President of Capital Projects Dozie Ibeh said that on-campus construction was “ramping up” — noting “Many projects are moving from a stage of demolition and structural construction [...] to exterior construction and interior fitout.” He added that “students may expect to see more subcontractors entering project sites.”
Victoria Davies is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Coming to Princeton as a first-year student, I noticed a recurring theme in conversations with juniors and seniors: they valued Princeton’s emphasis on community. Many of the students I talked to valued a deep familiarity with both their physical location and the people who inhabit it. Having a sense of community involves knowing one’s fellow class members and feeling connected to every part of campus. While many have critiqued Princeton as an “Orange Bubble” which students rarely venture out of, within that bubble, the common sentiment was that upper-class students felt a strong connection to their peers.
But with the campus expanding in size, the sentiment of community is fading. As Princeton increases class sizes and campus area, it runs the risk of weakening its small-college-style community. While I agree that Princeton should increase class sizes and welcome more people into our undergraduate community, the acceleration of this process may leave school unity behind.
First, while Princeton expanded the body with two new residential colleges, Yeh College (formerly New College East) and New College West (NCW), college spirit has lagged behind. This trend showed itself in casual ways, like when Yeh College didn’t have a mascot during Clash of Colleges and how NCW still does not have an actual name. There are also more concrete signs that the new colleges are not integrated into the school community: there are fewer sophomores in Yeh, leading to a community which is primarily first-years. For juniors and seniors who didn’t choose to live in the new colleges, Yeh and NCW are totally new communities and were not part of the campus that they once knew and identified with. For example, Ayeda Hamed ’23 said that, “I am mentally accustomed to thinking that campus ends at Poe Field.”
Second, campus construction has also divided us in space, making walking around campus a larger chore. As new construction barricades rise, students are more inclined to spend most of their day on one side of campus if they can, and access to even “central locations” like Frist Campus Center has been impeded. Indeed, the terms “South Campus” and “North Campus” have firmly set in, dividing what once could have been considered a short walk down Elm Drive.
Finally, the effects of the physical barriers imposed by construction are exacerbated by Princeton’s decision to double down on the four-year residential college model. Princeton chose to restrict the room draw process for rising juniors to rooms within their own residential colleges, reversing the tradition of allowing upper-class students to draw into any residential college. Some incoming first-years may struggle with finding a community if they cannot find their core group in their randomly allotted college. By restricting room draw options, Princeton prevents these students from diversifying their communities and limits the cross-college exchange that was once a common part of the campus living experience. Since students can’t move to other residential colleges, each college is becoming more self-contained.
Princeton probably doesn’t mean to harm the sense of campus community. However, their decisions still have real, negative impacts on the ways students navigate their Princeton journey. They alter social expectations (influencing questions such as “should you prioritize friendships within your own residential college?”) and could completely change what someone defines as their Princeton community.
As we get ready to welcome the Great Class of 2027 (the second year of expanded class sizes), we must reflect on the type of college community we are introducing them to. With continuous expansion, we face the risk of losing cohesive campus unity. If Princeton doesn’t take steps to address the waning sense of community, like reforming their room-draw process and fostering more residential college spirit in the newer colleges, all we will be doing is giving first-years a warm welcome into a campus coolly divided.
Aly Rashid (he/him) is a prospective SPIA major in the Class of 2026 from Lahore, Pakistan. He is a contributing columnist and associate editor of the Newsletter for the ‘Prince.’ Outside of the ‘Prince,’ he is Deputy Captain of the Princeton Model UN Team and International Orientation leader at the Davis IC.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Months after unionization, negotiations between the Labyrinth Books Union employees and the store’s owners continue to stall as disagreements over terms have prevented a finalized contract. A meeting set for Tuesday was unexpectedly canceled by the union‘s bargaining committee due to “unforeseen personal circumstances,” after a previous round of negotiations over the summer left them unsatisfied with the results. With no date set, negotiations will be in flux for the foreseeable future.
Labyrinth workers officially unionized on Jan. 10, 2024, when the employees, store owners, and the Retail, Wholesale, and Department Store Union (RWDSU) all signed a voluntary recognition agreement. Although negotiations seemed ready to start, on Aug. 8, the Labyrinth Books Union filed an Unfair Labor Practice charge with the National Labor Relations Board. Employees wrote that the owners were not bargaining in good faith.
“Our Employer’s unwillingness to meet at the bargaining table on a regular basis — lately delaying for months at a time — has needlessly drawn out the contract negotiation process,” said a signed statement posted to the union’s Instagram account.
“The issue at hand is that we unionized in December, we were voluntarily recognized by the employer in January, and in the eight months since then, we have only met at the table twice to negotiate,” Labyrinth employee Theo Jame told The Daily Princetonian in an interview. “Both of those times … for two hours or less.”
The owners of Labyrinth, Dorothea von Moltke and Cliff Simms, disagreed with this characterization.
“The owners of Labyrinth have been meeting regularly with the union’s bargaining committee,” they wrote in a statement to the ‘Prince.’
“While owner Cliff Simms did request to postpone one meeting on July 2 due to an eye injury and subsequent operation, negotiations are ongoing. Given that the parties were aware of Cliff’s health issue, the accusation of bad faith negotiations are hard to understand. We remain eager to come to an agreement,” they added. The discussion was rescheduled to Aug. 29.
While previous union negotiation sessions were made open to the public at Princeton Public Library, the Aug. 29 meeting initially held a virtual option. However, the virtual meeting was closed a few minutes into the session. Jame noted that the party including management and the mediator also had concerns about filming the negotiations.
After their negotiations concluded, von Moltke wrote to the ‘Prince’ that “we are hopeful that we are making progress toward a competitive and sustainable contract. In order to expedite the process, we invited a federal mediator which we believe was instrumental in the progress we made.”
Von Moltke also provided an update on the status of negotiations, writing to the ‘Prince,’ “We have offered a starting wage of $17 an hour and yearly raises for the next 3 years. In addition, we are offering health and vision insurance, vacation and sick pay, and overtime pay as well as a 401(k) personal retirement benefit.”
After the most recent discussion, Labyrinth employees still feel that progress needs to be made.
“There were still many points of our contract that they had not acknowledged, and in their counter proposals that they presented with us that day, they did not concede any points,” Jame told the ‘Prince.’ “We felt that we arrived at 10:00 a.m. ready for a full day of negotiations, and we only had two hours at the table where pretty minimal movement was made, and there was still a lot of resistance from them.”
Elise Agnor, another employee, also said she would like to see changes within the negotiation process in the future. “The biggest frustration that we have going forward is their unwillingness to hold open bargaining sessions as we had in the past,” she said.
Both Agnor and Jame noted that they would like to see future discussions held as open bargaining sessions available to the public at the Princeton Public Library.
Yet management had a different view about open bargaining. Simms wrote, “We have always agreed to open bargaining sessions in which any employee from Labyrinth can attend. What we have never agreed to is public bargaining where anybody is permitted to attend.”
Discussions between management and the union coincide with other notable changes for the bookstore. As of this semester, Labyrinth is no longer the main provider of course books for Princeton students. Students now purchase their books through an online retailer called eCampus. The change in provider ends a 17-year partnership between Labyrinth and the University.
However, employees haven’t seen a significant change in business so far.
“I don’t think we can speak to exact numbers. Based on my own personal experience in the store, I think that it has still been quite busy with the start of the semester and the influx of students coming into town,” Jame said.
At the same time, the store has seen recent staff turnover. According to Jame and another Labyrinth employee, Elise Agnor, approximately five to seven employees have left the bookstore out the 20 who initially filed the NLRB complaint, but Labyrinth has only hired one new employee since the recognition of the union.
“Without [Labyrinth employees], the store would not function. It would not be as special as it is. So we just wanted to be recognized for that and treated accordingly,” said Jame.
Isabella Dail is a staff News writer and head editor for The Prospect for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Beginning this semester, students will purchase textbooks and other required course materials through the new eCampus Online Bookstore platform. Students have reported experiencing order delays from the new online bookstore and expressed concern over potential long processing times in the mailroom at Frist Campus Center.
In May, the University announced that local independent bookstore Labyrinth Books would no longer serve as the supplier of books for Princeton courses after 17 years of partnership.
According to Caitlin Donahue, Course Materials Manager at the McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning, this change was a collective decision between Labyrinth and the University.
“Labyrinth now gets to fully focus on being a local bookstore that excels in scholarly materials as well,” Donahue said in an interview with The Daily Princetonian.
Donahue told the ‘Prince’ that the shift has brought “more awareness about things like the types of books that are being used, what courses need more material, what students are purchasing, and what faculty is requesting.”
Other features of the new platform include the ability to sell textbooks and to  price match a new, used, or rental textbook within seven days of purchase.
“I do believe that this provides students with a little more flexibility with the options they have,” Donahue added.
Students may choose to ship their books to Frist Campus Center or to any non-campus address. While shipping is always free for orders sent to Frist, students must spend over $59 to ship items off-campus for free. Books that are available and ordered before 11 a.m. ET will have same-day shipping, and orders placed after 11 a.m. ET will ship the next business day.
According to an email sent to returning students by University Registrar Emily Shandley, students will be notified by Print and Mail Services via email when their orders are ready for pickup. Textbook deliveries sent to Frist Campus Center can be picked up via walk up service at the mail center or in a secure locker.
Some students using the new platform have experienced delays with their orders. “Every time I ordered from Labyrinth, [my books] would arrive in the store around two days after I placed the order,” Alex Picoult ’26 said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ “I ordered a book about a week ago from the new system, and it hasn’t arrived yet. Nobody likes to feel unprepared.”
Vivian Loeffert ’27 is also concerned about the processing times at Frist. “I’ve had packages in Frist that take over a week to process,” she said in an interview with the ‘Prince’. “That can become an issue when course materials are needed for readings and other assignments early in the semester.”
Loeffert also enjoyed the experience of visiting a physical store to retrieve course materials. “In an age where there are so few physical books anymore, I liked to have the satisfaction of going into a store. There is also now more packaging and shipping involved, which is bad for the environment,” she said.
Donahue, however, believes that the new online system will be beneficial overall. “I know that a lot of other schools have bookstores that are exclusively online, so I think it’s really great that Princeton is now doing an online bookstore. It allows for a lot more flexibility and accessibility, which is very exciting.”
Ava Fonss is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.After 17 years, Princeton’s coursebook partnership with local independent bookstore Labyrinth Books is coming to an end.
Starting this summer, coursebooks will be supplied through the online retailer eCampus. According to the University and Labyrinth, the split was a mutual decision. Some students, though, expressed disappointment with the switch, as well as surprise. At publication time, there has not been a formal, publicized announcement issued to the University community.
Many students head to Nassau Street at the start of each semester to purchase coursebooks through Labyrinth at a 30 percent discount, which they can return for a full refund during the two-week add/drop period and sell back to the bookstore at the end of the semester.
“The change was based on our mutual agreement that our long-standing system no longer made sense for the store or for the University,” University Spokesperson Jennifer Morrill wrote in a statement to The Daily Princetonian.
A press release from Labyrinth sent to the ‘Prince’ noted that the bookstore would shift its focus to expand its “used and antiquarian holdings.” They also hope that the shift will allow the downstairs area to include “more flexibly sized event areas, and smaller meeting spaces, as well as remodeled displays and inviting seating.”
eCampus offers new books, used books, ebooks, and rentals. Students will still be able to sell books back, but the University did not directly respond to a question about how buy-backs will operate through eCampus. The new website states “More information about this program will be available soon” at the time of publication. Students will still be able to sell textbooks from the 2023–24 school year back to Labyrinth until June 15.
Books for summer programs will be available online for purchase starting May 1 and Fall semester coursebooks will be available beginning August 1. Students can order books to any shipping address.
Princeton University Mail Services processes roughly 20 percent of the packages they receive annually between late August and September, reflecting the high volume of incoming mail during move-in. The University did not directly respond to a question about whether the new coursebook system could further delay Mail Services processing times in Frist Campus Center at the start of the semester, although Morrill did write, “It should be noted that eCampus stocks and houses its own inventory in a state-of-the-art distribution center, offers free 2-day expedited shipping to Campus and has a vast selection of digital resources, as well as providing a guaranteed book buyback price for students displayed on selected titles at the time of checkout.”
The University also did not directly respond to a question about the environmental impact of switching to a coursebook delivery system.
When asked about the transition and potential renovation process, Labyrinth co-owners Dorothea von Moltke and Cliff Simms noted that “the timeline is uncertain, will depend on finances, and may necessitate store closures at different moments.”
The partnership between Labyrinth and the University dates back to 2007. Simms was quoted in a University article upon the beginning of this partnership, saying “Princeton University has taken the changing bookselling landscape in town as an opportunity … to help ensure that there will still be an independent, community bookstore on Nassau Street and that it can meet the University’s own book-related needs, including course books, as effectively and economically as possible.”
Labyrinth believes that the bookstore will still serve a crucial role in University and town community even after the conclusion of this 17-year-long partnership.
“In continuing to support a post-coursebooks Labyrinth, the University is reiterating the conception it had articulated when they invited Labyrinth to Princeton in 2007: to support a bookstore that serves the needs of both the University and larger community by offering a rich selection of books and program of events,” Labyrinth's press release continued.
Von Moltke and Simms noted in a separate statement to the ‘Prince’ that the split may have an impact on staff, stating that “approximately a third of our overall revenue has come from coursebook sales. Without coursebook rushes and the preparations, which include receiving, handling, shelving thousands of books, and the labor of returning books to publishers when they don’t sell, we are now in the process of assessing how many fewer people in different areas of the store we will need.”
Labyrinth Books has made recent headlines due to its workers’ unionization in January, which the store's ownership ultimately supported. Still, employees have protested ongoing challenges such as “understaffing and intimidation.” Currently, employees and management are engaged in collective bargaining.
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ Labyrinth Books employee Elise Agnor wrote that “Labyrinth Books claims to be pro-union but they are operating in a way that undermines the Union, and the news about Labyrinth’s contract with Princeton is a prime example.”
She continued, “The Union is focused on trying to negotiate a fair and equitable contract; if management actually wants to be considered a pro-union employer, they should act like it and come to the table to negotiate over any changes to status quo, which they failed to do adequately and accurately here.”
Another employee of the store, Meg O’Brien, wrote in a statement to the ‘Prince’ that the news of potential staffing impacts was unexpected, and that “sharing this news with the local newspaper before the terms and conditions of any potential layoffs have been agreed to at the bargaining table is disrespectful to the workers.” She also stated that Labyrinth’s management “must maintain status quo within the store until such a time that an agreement has been reached and ratified.”
The University indicated that the changes come in part as a result of shifting demand from students.
Morrill noted that surveys of faculty and students conducted in 2023 “indicated increasing demand for digital materials and need for flexibility in assigning readings as the semester progresses,” which also factored into the decision.
Indeed, the owners of Labyrinth told the ‘Prince’ that “Post [COVID-19], coursebook sales have dropped by 50 [percent] from 2019. However, the number of books ordered by faculty remained fairly steady-state. COVID-19 accelerated the availability of most course materials in the form of free PDFs. Ordering, receiving, stocking, and returning unsold coursebooks have demanded the [repurposing] of staff and space for [five] months of each year, but with no sustainable returns on investment.”
Dean of the College Jill Dolan notified faculty of the switch to eCampus at the end of March. Morrill noted that students will receive relevant information over the summer.
As the change has not yet been announced to the student body, all the students interviewed by the ‘Prince’ for this piece were not yet aware of the change, although the new coursebook landing page has been live since at least March 29, according to Internet Archive.
“This is a travesty,” was the initial reaction of Maia Weintraub ’25 upon hearing the news. Although she noted eCampus could potentially be a convenient option, she said, “I just kind of like the feel of going to a real life bookstore and picking up books, and it kind of takes the fun out of it” to order books online.
Although Sharon Leonard ’27 does not envision that the switch will have a major impact on her, she told the ‘Prince’ that she was “surprised because [she] thought that Labyrinth and Princeton had a really strong connection.”
Samuel Kligman ’26 told the ‘Prince’ that he believes the switch in providers should prompt further changes from the University, saying the change is “a major inconvenience and it should already spur the University into subsidizing our books.”
The coursebooks website states that professors must submit textbook orders by April 30 for summer programs and by May 31 for Fall semester classes. “The May deadline for Fall 2024 book adoptions is earlier than usual in an effort to get faculty and staff to start using the new tool before the summer break so we can provide sufficient support and training to all who need it,” Morrill wrote to the ‘Prince.’
“We value Labyrinth’s long service as the University’s textbook provider,” Dolan wrote to the ‘Prince,’ “and we are excited to support our town’s beloved bookstore as it invests in its more targeted scholarly mission.”
Editor's note: this piece has been updated to include Labyrinth employee Meg O’Brien’s comment.
Annie Rupertus is a head News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Christopher Bao ’27 is an assistant News editor and the accessibility director for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Princeton, N.J. and typically covers town politics and life.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is a Letter to the Editor and reflects the authors’ views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
Labyrinth Books, among its many connections to Princeton, convenes a faculty advisory committee that meets once a semester to give advice on store policies in the changing context of the University’s curricular needs. The unionization of employees at Labyrinth is a decision that we as members of that committee greet warmly, expecting that it will only strengthen an institution that is both so vital to the Princeton community and so beloved. Furthermore, knowing the actors involved, we have every reason to hope that a successful agreement can be reached in a mutually respectful manner.
The advisory committee does not exercise any formal oversight over Labyrinth’s operations, and we speak here as individuals rather than on behalf of the committee. But our positions do afford us perspective on some recent criticisms of Labyrinth’s management aired in the ‘Prince’s’ coverage, which we want to address in the hopes that clarification will strengthen the foundation for successful bargaining.
Organizers have expressed concern that the store has been deliberately reducing the number of staff eligible to participate in collective bargaining. A full view shows that staffing levels have been at consistent levels since the pandemic, despite a more than 50 percent decrease in course book sales since 2019. In the past four years, there have been between 17 and 21 full and part-time employees at the end of the spring course book rush, and there are 19 now. The spring is ordinarily the quietest time of year at the store, and though we cannot speak to the current workload, current staffing numbers are consistent with those of previous years.
If there were any indication that Labyrinth is attempting to “shrink the bargaining unit” to diminish workers’ power in negotiations, we would be gravely concerned. But, having been involved with the store for many years, we do not see evidence that this is happening. No one from the bargaining unit to which the union has agreed has been let go, and the only eligible employees who have left Labyrinth resigned. Any changes in staffing size are in keeping with the store’s past practices.
We are not in a position to speak to all of the concerns voiced in the organizers’ Feb. 13 letter, but we found it important to address those of which we have some useful knowledge. We support Labyrinth employees’ desire to unionize and Labyrinth’s recognition of the union, and we have every reason to believe that the management of the store is prepared to work hard to arrive at a fair agreement. Labyrinth is a great institution because every time anyone walks in, they are greeted by people who are helpful, knowledgeable, and dedicated to books. We are grateful to everyone at the store, and we hope to see Labyrinth flourish in its indispensable role as a campus and town center for critical and imaginative thinking, talking, and reading — a great place to visit and a great place to work.
Jeff Dolven is a professor in the Department of English. He can be reached at jdolven@princeton.edu. Andrea Graham is a professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. She can be reached at algraham@princeton.edu. Brian Kernighan is a professor in the Department of Computer Science. He can be reached at bwk@princeton.edu. Eldar Shafir is a professor in the Departments of Psychology and SPIA. He can be reached at shafir@princeton.edu. They all serve on the faculty advisory committee for Labyrinth Books.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.On a typical morning, Labyrinth Books opens its doors to patrons at 10 a.m. The morning of Tuesday, Feb. 13, the store’s opening was briefly disrupted by a demonstration inside the store. Around 20 people participated in the protest, including Labyrinth employees, Princeton students, and others who gathered for about ten minutes in the store to present a letter detailing complaints against the store’s management.
Demonstrators voiced concerns about what they see as ongoing challenges such as “understaffing and intimidation” that have arisen following the announcement of Labyrinth employees’ intent to unionize and the subsequent official recognition of their union last month.
“We, the employees of Labyrinth, call on management to immediately commence hiring staff to replace the full-time employees who have left, and to immediately cease the unreasonable one-on-one meetings to reprimand the otherwise permissible behavior of staff,” employee Matt Macaulay stated, reading aloud from a letter that was also posted to the union’s Instagram account.
The Daily Princetonian spoke with both union organizers and store management to assemble a portrait of the disputes presented in the letter.
Much of the letter addressed what Rebecca Ziemann, an employee who participated in the demonstration, called a “real staffing crisis” in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ Ziemann noted that being shorthanded “not only impacts us, but also impacts the customers because we can’t attend to them as well as we could if we were fully staffed.”
The letter alleged that Labyrinth management has aimed to “shrink the bargaining unit” by “intentionally understaffing the store.” The letter further claimed that this work was being undertaken via the hiring of a “union-busting attorney” after workers announced their intent to unionize on Dec. 21. The letter claimed the “central goal” of this attorney was “to constrain our democratic effort to create a union and vote on a fair contract.”
Labyrinth owner Dorothea von Moltke refuted this claim, writing in a statement to the ‘Prince,’ “We voluntarily recognized the union and have never engaged in union-busting activities. To call our lawyer a union buster is only to say that he is negotiating on an employer’s behalf.”
The letter addressed the store owners’ voluntary recognition of the union, announced on Jan. 9. This acknowledgment came despite initial indications from store owners that they would wait for an official employee vote to recognize unionization.
“We all really appreciate this recognition,” Tuesday’s letter stated, “but we wish it could have come sooner, and without burning thousands of dollars on anti-democratic advice.”
Additionally, the union’s letter referenced the recent termination of a temporary worker, stating that while management previously said this termination would occur in “mid-February,” the employee was terminated Feb. 2 “during [the store’s] busy coursebook rush” — halfway through Princeton University’s undergraduate add/drop period for courses.
The ‘Prince’ was unable to independently verify the date of the temporary employee’s dismissal.
Maria DiPasquale, a spokesperson for the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union (RWDSU), said in an interview with the ‘Prince’ that “this worker is a very vocal union supporter.”
Von Moltke, however, seemed to claim that the early termination was due to decreased demand. “The workers complaining about staffing are wholly unaware of the store’s labor costs or needs, and are making assumptions not backed up by facts,” she wrote to the ‘Prince.’
She noted that Labyrinth’s book sales have sharply declined following the start of the COVID-19 pandemic and that “this drop in sales has meant we need fewer temporary employees, and we need them for a shorter period of time. When coursebook season is over, we have always reduced the staff to arrive at the staff level necessary to run the store.”
“It is true that the unionizing staff has decreased recently. But we have not terminated any full-time employees or regular part-time employees,” von Moltke continued. “It’s worth noting that temporary employees are not part of the bargaining unit.”
In addition to points about staffing, the letter also discussed recent occurrences within Labyrinth of managers tapping staff for meetings “to be reprimanded and intimidated for behaviors that cannot be reasonably construed to be punishable.” The letter alleged that management has sent email communications about these meetings while cc’ing attorneys, which the union believes is motivated by a desire to “provide the grounds for future termination.”
While Ziemann saw these meetings as a “common tactic” of “intimidating workers so they won’t fight back,” von Moltke argued that communication difficulties have been caused by the union.
“Since the formation of the [union],” she wrote, “communication in the store has been made difficult by ongoing organizing activity in the store, the use of cell phones in unauthorized ways to holding constant communication, small impromptu meetings, whisper-campaigns, [and] defensive refusal to speak to managers or the owner without undue formality.”
She added that the emergence of the union has prompted the store to “formalize” management and “enforce existing policies in the face of intransigence.”
Von Moltke emphasized the dynamic nature of job duties at Labyrinth. “Bookselling has never been limited to certain activities,” she wrote. “A good bookseller understands the whole store. It can take years to gain that kind of experience.”
In an earlier interview with the ‘Prince,’ Ziemann described her job at Labyrinth as “part warehouse, labor heavy job [where] you’re lugging boxes of books around, and part detail-oriented data entry work.”
On Tuesday, she reflected on her experience doing this job during the most recent coursebook season, noting that temporary workers during these busy periods usually help with filling student orders, which allows workers like herself to complete their typical tasks “in a timely manner.” During this cycle, she said, “we couldn’t focus on actually receiving books.”
In addition to the group of Labyrinth employees present for the demonstration, Princeton students accounted for a significant portion of demonstrators.
Princeton Young Democratic Socialists of America (YDSA) Steering Committee Co-Chair Abraham Jacobs ’26 told the ‘Prince’ that the Labyrinth union reached out to Princeton YDSA with a request to send students to support the employees’ efforts — basically, he said, they “ask[ed] us if we could bring bodies.”
Jacobs said that Princeton YDSA has maintained a relationship with the union in the past few weeks as unionization efforts have progressed, and that the student group is “always in solidarity” with local unions.
Despite disagreements between employees and management, the union is officially recognized (and has been since Jan. 10), meaning collective bargaining is the next major milestone — a process which takes, on average, over a year.
Even given the voluntary recognition of the union, Ziemann said that “in the past month, [management has] done a number of things to really underscore that they don’t actually respect our right to unionize.”
DiPasquale explained that those involved are currently still preparing for the bargaining stage. For example, she said, stakeholders need to decide on a neutral location for bargaining, and employees must elect a bargaining committee.
Von Molkte noted in her statement, “At this time, we have provided the union dates to begin negotiations on a first contract, and we await their response.”
Annie Rupertus is a head News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The beginning of a new semester comes with a routine we’ve learned by rote. Greet the old friends, vow to “get a meal sometime!” — you probably won’t, and that’s probably fine. Purchase binders, folders, and notebooks if you’re the write-by-hand sort. Then, go to Labyrinth with a few sturdy amici in tow and prepare to haul your dog-eared copies of Plato and Joyce home in anticipation of classes beginning. It was a good life, looking back.
With the advent of “eCampus Online Bookstore,” this solemn rite must now be done alone, hunched over a laptop screen. There is some associated convenience: no sore shoulders, fewer trips, and no dreaded “out of stock” messages. Caitlin Donahue, Course Materials Manager at McGraw, says the switch to eCampus also allows the harried (but universally sweet) Labyrinth employees to focus on their roles running a local bookstore, instead of helping hunt down a copy of “Virtue Ethics for Consultants.”
However, for student book buyers, eCampus is slower and more expensive than Labyrinth was. Ultimately, the switch replaces an economic and spiritual pillar of the community with yet another e-commerce conglomerate.
First, take “slow”: some books took over a week to arrive with the new service and weren’t in students’ hands until well after the start of fall courses. The advantage of buying at Labyrinth was efficiency: you walked out of the store with most of your books, and received those that required a separate order within two days. Princeton’s twelve week semester means that coursework comes at you fast, and a lost week of reading can mean falling behind when a course has barely begun.
Choosing from a selection of books in-person also allowed for far more choice, especially for students who need to buy used books for financial reasons. “The Peaceable Kingdom” by Stanley Hauerwas costs $29.24 to buy on eCampus, but only $13.98 to buy from Labyrinth — and eCampus takes a full three to five more business days to receive after ordering.
And the inability to decide what level of disrepair is acceptable is frustrating. eCampus only allows you to choose between new, used, rentals, and ebooks. The stochastic assignment of copies by a faceless algorithm removes the tangible benefits of buying books in the physical world.
However, this argument about price and convenience cannot capture why I care so deeply about buying course books at Labyrinth. Sure, my English-major opinions on books are many and ardent. Still, we all should fear a post-Labyrinth universe.
Selling marked-up course books most definitely turns a profit. When Labyrinth did it, we could be relatively certain that our money was going toward a local bookstore in a time when these invaluable businesses are dropping like flies. From 1998–2020, over 50 percent of America’s independent bookstores closed down for good. The total amount I paid for my books each semester has remained roughly the same from freshman year to now, but my money now disappears into the online aether with the click of a button.
Who are we paying, and why haven’t the prices dropped with the customer-service element removed? eCampus spent a decade as one of Amazon’s partners before breaking off to go into the business of textbook rentals and sales after Amazon broadened its scope, leaving a sizable gap in online course book sales. At least one new book a student ordered from eCampus arrived in Amazon packaging, which should set off alarm bells. Has Princeton redirected our book money from a local business to one of the wealthiest companies on the planet – and are we paying even more for the privilege?
Meanwhile, Labyrinth is a veritable Princeton institution and a symbol both of this particular community and the necessary, waning brotherhood of independent booksellers across the country. Without the revenue from thousands of students buying multiple books at a time, will Labyrinth’s position in the marketplace become untenable?
The pestilence of the modern world is how quickly it alienates us from the human aspect of everything. A book has passed through dozens of caring hands before it reached yours. That chain takes corporeal form in a place like Labyrinth, where the workers give directions and effusive recommendations while you browse. They care about the wares they peddle — and so did everyone else who made possible the precious hundreds of bound pages you throw in your bag, on desks, and atop the odd creepy-crawly in need of squishing. A book is the triumph of years and lives; it reminds us that the pursuit of higher knowledge is a fundamentally human endeavor. You have to try hard to be disaffected and lethargic when you’re holding a sweet-smelling, fresh tome of your very own. Door swings open; Jersey sunlight floods in behind the customers. Muted swish of paper on paper. Doorbell jingles: you are here, you are here, you are here.
Anna Ferris is a junior in the English department. She can be reached at annaferris[at]princeton.edu
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.The University’s new online bookstore’s first semester as the official course book provider for students has been met with criticism from students, who have expressed frustration over the platform’s prices, shipping delays, and an overall inconvenient experience.
In April, the University and Labyrinth announced that they would be terminating their longtime partnership. The decision to part ways followed 17 years of the Nassau Street bookstore providing students with their required reading materials.
Before the fall semester began, students were directed to place orders through the eCampus Online Bookstore, a fully digital platform available at over 300 educational institutions and the new primary option for University students to obtain class reading materials. Despite the digital platform’s claim to be a “premier online bookstore,” students reflecting on their experience reported issues and delays.
The McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning runs the online bookstore, serving as a liaison between the book supplier and its users. Said users are largely students and faculty, although anyone with Princeton credentials can log on and use the bookstore’s services.
Last month, the University’s Print and Mail Department announced that all packages and mail would be processed within 48 hours. According to data provided by Marija Naumoski, senior instructional designer at the McGraw Center, 81 percent of course book orders shipped within 24 hours of being placed and were available to be picked up within the 48-hour processing time.
For Sena Chang ’28, the process has been difficult, and she has had trouble with deliveries. Chang was unable to receive some of the books she ordered in time for the start of lectures and precepts.
“I wasn’t necessarily able to have my books for certain precepts or in certain lectures, which was a big disservice to my learning, especially because the campus bookstore didn’t notify me whether or not the books were getting delivered and why they were canceled,” Chang told The Daily Princetonian.
Chang is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
“I ordered over 30 books off the bookstore, but I had to pick them up individually from Frist,” Chang continued. “Whereas my peers who had purchased their books from Amazon didn’t have that issue because they just came all at once.”
Similarly, Ari Ahdieh ’28 was enrolled in a Humanities sequence and purchased all 30 books off the eCampus bookstore.
“I overall had a good experience,” Ahdieh wrote to the ‘Prince.’ “I would honestly just have liked a little more clarity on the various buy, rent, and used options as I wasn’t initially so clear on how each of these worked, especially on the renting side.”
For Bedros Maldjian ’26, the introduction of the eCampus bookstore removes Labyrinth’s convenience factor of being able to purchase course materials near campus.
“I was extremely disappointed with the new system of buying books at Princeton,” Maldjian said. “It used to be so convenient, and I could walk into Labyrinth unannounced, say my course number, and I got my books for the semester immediately without any delay.”
Maldjian has not yet used the new bookstore.
“Due to the new online bookstore, I’ve looked for alternative ways to get my coursebooks after using Labyrinth for my first two years at Princeton,” he added.
Despite being an independent online bookstore, eCampus does have connections with Amazon.
“In the event of late adoptions or publisher delays that are out of their control, eCampus has a network of drop-ship partners who can fulfill orders that are unavailable at the central distribution center,” Naumoski wrote to the ‘Prince.’ “This solution includes Amazon and allows eCampus to fulfill student orders quickly and efficiently by sourcing from these partners who can ship from their own distribution centers and locations in closer proximity to Princeton. In these cases, the order may be delivered in an Amazon box or other box not labeled eCampus,” Naumoski continued.
Some students have noted the eCampus bookstore’s higher prices. Chang provided an example: “History of the Peloponnesian War” is required for students enrolled in Humanistic Studies (HUM) 216 and 217. On the eCampus online bookstore, a new copy is $20.18, while the same book is $16.77 on Amazon.
On the online bookstore’s frequently asked questions sheet, it does mention a policy regarding price matching, stating: “With our price match guarantee, we will price match a new, used or rental textbook within seven days of purchase from your online bookstore.” Under this policy, if a book is offered for a lower price on a certain list of sites, students can submit a request to buy the book from eCampus for a lower price — one that matches an eligible site’s offer.
“With a price match guarantee option, students can receive the best price from the Princeton online bookstore while being confident that they will receive the correct professor-selected course materials for first-day success,” Naumsoki wrote.
However, several students have reported to the ‘Prince’ that they did not know about the price match policy, leaving many with significantly higher costs.
“Listening to my peers who had ordered off of Amazon, their totals for the same collection of books came out to be around $400, whereas my total was around $800,” Chang said.
Hayk Yengibaryan is an associate Sports editor and News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.At 10 a.m. on Dec. 21, employees at Labyrinth Books, located at 122 Nassau Street, opened its doors to the public as usual. But, as customers flowed in to browse, employees gathered together on the floor and announced their intent to unionize.
If successful, Labyrinth will become the first independent bookstore in N.J. to unionize and the second overall, after Barnes & Noble College Bookstore at Rutgers.
The statement, read aloud by store employee Rebecca Ziemann, explained that the effort originated from the belief that “unionization and collective bargaining will create a better future for this bookstore,” and was also motivated by the employees’ desire to be treated with “dignity, respect, and transparency.” The key demands of the organizers are higher wages and more transparency on the part of the store’s owners.
Labyrinth Books first opened its doors in Princeton town in the fall of 2007, replacing Micawber Books as the official partner of Princeton University, and became one of the most popular bookstores in the Princeton area. According to its website, the store hosts numerous events and talks throughout the year and engages in various community partnerships. Currently, the store has three owners — Dorothea von Moltke, Cliff Simms, and Peter Simms — five managers, and 19 employees.
At least 30 percent of employees have to be in support of a unionization petition to file, according to rules set by the National Labor Relations Act. After a petition is filed, there are two possibilities — the employers can voluntarily recognize the union, in which case workers go directly to the bargaining stage, or the employers can choose not to recognize the union, in which case an election is held, with a simple majority of employees being sufficient to gain recognition by the employer.
Though employees in a store-wide speech urged “the management of Labyrinth to voluntarily recognize the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union (RWDSU) as a representative of our collective bargaining at Labyrinth Books,” the owners have not recognized the union.
“We as owners of Labyrinth recognize the intention of our employees to unionize … We will, of course, recognize our employees’ choice,” Von Moltke said in a statement to The Daily Princetonian. “If a majority of our employees vote in favor of unionization, we will bargain in good faith for all of our employees and expect to reach a fair and acceptable contract.”
The process of finalizing a date for an election is ongoing. Ziemann and Maria DiPasquale, a representative from RWDSU, told the ‘Prince’ that they are confident there is majority support among employees, suggesting that the unionization vote will pass.
Ziemann, who grew up in the Princeton area and has worked at Labyrinth since May of 2022, explained that unionization has been a frequent topic of discussion since she joined. However, efforts only seriously began around September of 2023, when workers contacted the Emergency Workers Organizing Committee (EWOC) for help starting the unionizing process. Since then, store employees have been working with EWOC and RWDSU in their unionization efforts.
The increased interest in unionization at Labyrinth comes at a time of growing labor activity across New Jersey and the country. Down the street at Starbucks, unionization at the Hopewell Township location prompted interest in unionizing among employees at the Princeton location, while NJ Transit engineers voted on going on strike in August.
At Labyrinth, Ziemann is part of the receiving department, which is in charge of preparing books for sale. She describes the job as “part warehouse, labor heavy job [where] you’re lugging boxes of books around, and part detail-oriented data entry work.” However, Ziemann finds that her current compensation of $15 an hour, 87 cents above New Jersey’s 2023 minimum wage, is not sufficient compensation. Notably, Labyrinth requires that all employees hold a bachelor’s degree.
With regards to employee benefits, Ziemann said that current PTO (paid time off) and vacation and sick time are not enough.
“As someone who is chronically ill, I don’t get enough sick time to cover that … So we are hoping for increased compensation, especially in line with increased responsibility.”
Ziemann also emphasized that higher wages are especially important for employees’ ability to live near Labyrinth, as “none of [the employees] can afford to actually live in Princeton” due to rising housing prices.
Beyond improved wages and benefits, employees seek transparency from management through unionization.
“I don't have any documentation from my employer on how PTO works," Ziemann cited as an example of transparency issues. "I have not actually received an explanation in the entire year and a half that I've worked here about exactly how many days [off] I get.”
She, in part, attributes communication breakdowns between managers and non-managers to the fact that Labyrinth operates as a "non-hierarchical" workplace despite having positions such as managers that suggest a hierarchy.
Ziemann emphasized that employees’ motivations to unionize are also connected to the care for Labyrinth that many in the community share.
“If we didn’t care, we wouldn’t be working so hard to improve it.”
Lana Swindle, a first-year college student who lives in Princeton, frequents Labyrinth often — partly because of the convenient location and friendly employees. She told the 'Prince' that employees’ readiness to strike up conversation contributes to an “overall friendly atmosphere.”
Ziemann shared this view. “I have found a really great community [at Labyrinth], all my coworkers are super wonderful and super supportive, and I genuinely like working with them.”
Amanda Demers and Francisco Rodriguez, two customers who visit from outside of Princeton to purchase books for Rodriguez’s research, described the employees as approachable and knowledgeable compared to larger bookstores they’ve been to, and both expressed their support for unionization.
“I will 100 percent support unionization because it is an essential part of labor and this place needs to have respect for their employees.” Rodriguez said.
Christopher Bao is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.With midterms, papers, problem sets, and a full week of classes, it can be easy to get lost in the chaos and forget to take a break. But this is the exact time we should be taking breaks — we need to rest and recover between assignments and celebrate our continued work!
Like many of my fellow Princetonians, one of my favorite study breaks is picking up a sweet treat from any of the numerous bakeries and coffee shops available to us. Here’s a list of places where you should go to satiate your sweet treat desires:
We’ve all been there: it’s 10pm, you still have work to do, and suddenly the craving for something sweet hits. Luckily, Princeton has a solution for you: Murray Dodge Cafe.
As most students know, the cookies offered each day are constantly changing, with consistent availability of vegan and gluten-free options. When I went for a midweek pick-me-up, three types of cookies awaited me: vegan oatmeal raisin with strawberry, vegan oreo chocolate chip, and banana chocolate chip. I tried all three. The banana chocolate chip was my favorite — it was the chewiest and had the richest flavor. The vegan cookies tasted just like regular cookies, free from the cakey texture that can sometimes plague egg-free desserts. The chocolate chips were melty in both cookies that featured them, and the strawberries added the right amount of fruity sweetness to the oatmeal raisin. Each cookie was warm and complemented the mug of hot cocoa I made at the beverage station. Cookies in hand, I felt re-energized and ready to continue my late-night studying.
With its charming decor, tasty drinks, and beautifully-crafted desserts, Chez Alice is perfect for a refined snack. Seating is limited, but if you manage to snag a table, you’ll get to watch countless Princetonians and tourists visit to enjoy the pastries.
On my visit, I tried their single-serving cassis cake, which consists of vanilla cake, chocolate mousse, and blackcurrant mousse, topped with fresh berries and a dark chocolate square. The tartness of the blackcurrant balanced the sweet vanilla and the rich chocolate. The cake was slightly dry from sitting in the display case, but eaten with the double mousse, I barely noticed. In the picturesque cafe, I felt as though I could properly reward myself for a long day of work.
While Olives is traditionally thought of as the place to go for a quick breakfast or lunch, they also have a wide variety of desserts. Although I was tempted by their self-proclaimed “famous baklava,” I instead opted for the rice pudding, which had a decent portion size and a healthy dusting of cinnamon on top.
Sweet and creamy, the rice pudding was a perfect snack while I studied for an upcoming exam. It had a very light vanilla flavor, and the rice granules added depth to the milky texture. With the recent spring weather, I was even able to sit outside their storefront and enjoy the bustle of Witherspoon Street.
Whenever I want my sweet treat to be the highlight of a trip to Nassau Street, I get frozen yogurt (froyo). Unlike other frozen desserts, everyone gets to prepare their own froyo cup themselves, offering ultimate customization. When I visited, I filled my cup with a combination of plain tart and peach. For toppings, I was in the mood for something reminiscent of a smoothie bowl, so I went with slivered almonds, housemade granola with pepitas, blueberries, mango, toasted coconut, and a drizzle of honey. I enjoyed the combination of flavors I tried, although I would probably recommend fewer toppings, since they competed with each other. The plain tart yogurt was smooth and creamy — a perfect base for anyone looking for something a little less sugary than vanilla. The peach flavor, one of the weekly specials, was a little icier, almost like a cross between froyo and Italian ice, and was quite a bit sweeter than I expected. However, when it comes to their fruity flavors, I prefer the strawberry froyo, which has a unique tartness.
In addition to chocolate and vanilla soft serve and a handful of mainstay froyo flavors, Fruity Yogurt rotates in three new flavors each week, so you’re always able to try something new. And for boba fans, Fruity Yogurt offers a wide variety of bubble tea options.
One of the great sweet treat debates of Princeton is whether you go to Bent Spoon or Thomas Sweet, and for me, the winner has to be Bent Spoon for one reason: banana whip. A frozen banana blended to the texture of soft serve, banana whip is as creamy and delicious as ice cream while being light on your stomach, and with freshly-made whipped cream and in-house M&M’s? Perfection.
Along with my beloved banana whip, I also taste-tested the “peanut butter, peanut butter cookie” flavor, which I’d never seen available before. It was amazing — with peanut butter cookie crumbs throughout and a nutty ice cream base, the flavor truly did taste like peanut butter through and through. I really enjoyed the slight crunch of the cookie bits breaking up the texture. If I were to get a cup of it, I would probably add magic shell (almost like an ice cream Reese’s cup!) or their homemade hot fudge sauce to add a little more richness and layers to the dessert.
For this semester’s midterms week, remember to take care of yourself and reward yourself for all of the hard work you have been doing this semester. Princeton has endless options for sweet treats that go far beyond this list: Maman, Thomas Sweet, Small World, and even the dining halls! With the versatility and quality of Princeton’s dessert shops, patisseries, and other sweet snack spots, you really can’t go wrong.
Lulu Pettit is a contributing writer for The Prospect at the ‘Prince’ who enjoys writing about food, movies, and local businesses. She can be reached at lp3153@princeton.edu, or on Instagram @itslulupettit.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.With the brisk autumn atmosphere setting into Princeton’s campus, my usual iced tea orders are quickly being replaced by warm drinks better fit for the incoming chilly seasons. Instead of an energizing coffee, I gravitate towards hot chocolate — the sweeter and more festive winter alternative in my opinion. I’ve always found myself holding a mug of hot chocolate over coffee; in high school, I would prepare a Thermos to savor the drink during my 7:30 a.m. classes, and I usually brought hot chocolate for classmates to celebrate my birthday right before Christmas.
To explore campus and also reward myself with a sweet treat after classes, I perused the array of local coffee shops and cafés to determine which hot chocolate I’ll be savoring through the fall and winter seasons. From worst to best, I’ll be noting and ranking various aspects about my hot chocolate ventures — the ambience, price, and convenience — with taste as the most important factor in my ratings.
Alexa, play “Hot Chocolate” from “The Polar Express.”
Ambience: A popular chain coffee shop, I crossed Nassau Street and was enveloped by warmth, greeted with the aroma of coffee beans. The warm lighting automatically made me feel cozy, even on the busy street. Many customers at the shop were studying and chatting, and I felt the environment was conducive to small group work or reading a new novel. While waiting for my order at the barstools at the window, I enjoyed the indie rock selections playing overhead and watched the passersby.
Review: For $3.95, I ordered a Venti hot chocolate with whipped cream, but the first thing I noticed was the lack of the topping. My first sip indicated that the whipped cream might have been infused into the hot chocolate rather than sitting on top. The drink leaned more into bitter chocolate notes, which is a nice contrast to the typical sugary versions I usually get. However, I felt that the texture was somewhat flat — maybe because the drink was made with hot water instead of milk (I prefer the latter in my hot chocolate).
Summary: This hot chocolate is good for a sudden craving, but I don’t recommend this for anyone looking for an indulgent beverage — you might fare better getting the iconic pumpkin spice latte from Starbucks instead.
Ambience: Much of my studying time is spent at NCW — I find myself spending hours figuring out my chemistry and calculus problem sets in the common rooms with my classmates. After my lecture, I went to the Coffee Club’s NCW branch to pick up a drink before studying in Addy Hall. The Club picked a perfect place to establish a campus-based location as the large, open space allows for natural lighting (even during the cloudy day that I went) and a comfortable setting for studying solo or in groups. I also appreciate the student-run music — there’s always something new playing depending on who’s running the café.
Review: For $4.70, I got a large hot chocolate. On the first sip, I immediately noticed that it was sweeter than my Starbucks order. Again, no whipped cream (granted, I didn’t ask for it), but there was a foamy feel, most likely from steamed milk. It tasted like the famous Swiss Miss Milk Chocolate packets: nostalgic and more sweet than chocolate-y. While I personally enjoyed it, I could definitely achieve a similar taste by preparing a mug of the prepared sachet and hot milk.
Summary: The Coffee Club hot chocolate is a true neutral character — sweet and milky. While it is a standard hot chocolate, it is a reliable pick-me-up for someone craving the drink.
Ambience: While I planned on visiting the main storefront on Nassau, my day starts at Frist Campus Center every day, so I decided to stop by after my Korean class. While there were not many people around, going any time after 10 a.m. will likely spoil the quiet study nook vibe established in the early morning.
Review: For $3.75 and one minute of waiting, I received a large hot chocolate. When I picked up my cup from the register, I instantly noticed the swirl of whipped cream peeking through the top. Considering the lack of whipped cream on my last two drinks, I was elated to see the topping! Upon the first sip (minus the sip that consisted of only whipped cream), I was hit with a very forward chocolate flavor. I find it to be right in between the profiles of my previous orders: chocolate-y without leaning into the bitterness of Starbucks, and sweet without leaning into the sugariness of Coffee Club. While initially creamy, mixing in the whipped cream lightened the drink’s body a pleasant amount.
Summary: Small World Coffee’s hot chocolate satisfies my morning sweet tooth without giving me a sugar brain fog — I’d love to sip on this drink in the flagship store surrounded by all things coffee and sweets.
Ambience: Since it was my first time at the town-favorite ice cream parlor, I had no idea what to expect. I was immediately greeted by a moody and homey storefront, tantalized by the ice cream barrels in front of me. I ordered two (!!) hot chocolates — a Parisian Hot Chocolate and a Hot Chocolate Float — since I was curious about the difference between the two. I waited for my drinks at the parlor booths as I took in how quaint the store felt at that moment. All that surrounded me was the sound of the espresso machine and the whiff of freshly scooped ice cream in my hand (the chocolate chip cookie dough and pecan praline were to die for, but that’s another review).
Review: Each drink cost $5.85, some of the most expensive orders I’ve gotten yet. First, the Hot Chocolate Float was not what I expected from the name — I was expecting some form of ice cream floating on top of the drink, like an upside down affogato. The drink had a semi-sweet chocolate flavor, but I was somewhat disappointed by the body: it lacked the creaminess and thickness in other hot chocolate orders I’ve gotten (especially since the word “float” implies an airy texture). It is similar to the Starbucks drink, with a more watery, bitter chocolate profile, but this one has a smoother mouthfeel and sweeter aftertaste. In comparison, the Parisian Hot Chocolate stood out from my previous reviews: I was hit with a whiff of cinnamon upon first sip, which added a unique compliment to the semi-sweet base. The body was creamier than the other drink, but it wasn’t overwhelmingly foamy. While I expected a more melted chocolate mouthfeel, I still enjoyed the not-so-thick consistency. A dollop of whipped cream would have pushed this drink towards perfection.
Summary: The Hot Chocolate Float is a standard hot chocolate — semi-sweet and easy to sip. While this may fare well for on-the-go hot chocolate, I can’t justify the price for a more reasonable buy at somewhere like Small World. The Parisian Hot Chocolate, on the other hand, is worth the walk from the heart of campus, as it functions as a perfect pairing with some rich ice cream or as a standalone indulgence during a chilly day.
Ambience: Technically, the first food I got as a Princeton student was hot chocolate from The Bent Spoon when I visited campus after committing to the school on Ivy Day. To finish the saga of hot chocolate tastings, I strolled through Palmer Square and found the tiny, dimly lit parlor with its employees bustling behind the counter. There wasn’t much space to enjoy my drink — there were only two seats inside the store. However, I was able to secure a window-front view to enjoy my hot chocolate order.
Review: I ordered a Classic Hot Chocolate with all the fixings — whipped cream and toasted marshmallows — for $8.25. This was, by far, the most expensive beverage I’ve bought on campus. However, my expectations for this drink were shattered when I first saw the beverage: the marshmallows were humongous and were toasted just like on a campfire. The taste? I was astonished by how bitter the chocolate was — there was barely any hint of sweetness. However, the marshmallows melted into the drink and added the perfect amount of sugar (and some burnt notes from the char) that balanced the bitterness of the liquid. The body was velvety and rich — the best way I could describe both the flavor and texture is melted chocolate. The most surprising thing about this drink is that its profile changes over time: as the marshmallow melts, the drink becomes more creamy and sweet. For such a small cup of hot chocolate, I was sipping my cup for the next 45 minutes.
Summary: The perfect drink for an indulgent hot chocolate experience — whether you have a sweet tooth or prefer the dark side, the multidimensionality of this The Bent Spoon special will have you reminiscing about warm fireplaces and chocolate chip cookies throughout wintertime.
For a beverage with such a simple concept, hot chocolate holds various flavor profiles across campus. Sweet or bitter, creamy or velvety, there’s probably a hot chocolate calling your name, within a 15 minute walk from your favorite study place. So do yourself a favor and grab a hot chocolate near you: it’s the perfect time to stroll past the falling leaves and enjoy a book with a warm drink in hand.
Brianna Melanie Suliguin is a contributing writer to The Prospect. She is a part of the Great Class of 2027 and is from Toms River, New Jersey. She can be contacted at bs7122@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On a quiet side street off of Nassau, the buttery smell of croissants wafts out the door of the newest addition to our community — a French café called Belle Journée. Princeton’s business district already boasts two French-style cafés: Maman and Chez Alice. To see if Belle Journée brought anything fresh to the scene, I took a trip to Chambers Street.
Unlike the cramped countertop cafés of France, Belle Journée offers a spacious interior filled with cases of picturesque pastries. The setup is reminiscent of the bakery chain Paris Baguette, where customers use trays and tongs to select their own pastries before approaching the counter. With modern, muted shades and stock images of the pastries on the walls, the new café doesn’t have as much character as Princeton staples like Small World Coffee or The Bent Spoon. However, the alluring pastries were enough to draw me in.
On a Monday afternoon, only a few other patrons populated the building, and the pastry cases were full of both traditional French and Americanized pastries — guava danishes, croissants, pain au chocolat, tiramisu doughnuts, and more. They also had a vegan croissant, a rarity due to the pastry’s dependence on butter. There was also a fair selection of savory options. To get a sense of the bakery’s range, I ordered something savory and something sweet, along with a classic vanilla latte.
I started with the latte. It was sweet but not cloying, with the vanilla flavor dominating over the bitterness of the coffee. Although I appreciated the fast service, I found the coffee to be quite average. At $6 for a 12-ounce cup, the price is on par with other Princeton coffee shops, but I wouldn’t go out of my way for this latte — though it did pair nicely with the pastries.
Next, I tried the savory pastry: a ham and cheese croissant. Topped with a melted, herb-covered slice of cheese, the croissant was certainly beautiful — but did its taste live up to its look? In short, it mostly did. The pastry was exceptionally flaky and buttery, and the ham and cheese filling wasn’t overly salty. Inside, they used two types of cheese: an orange-colored sliced variety akin to grocery store American cheese, and a smooth cheese spread. I especially savored the spread, which added some much-needed creaminess to the room-temperature sandwich. The artificial orange color of the cheese turned me off slightly, but the taste was a mouth-watering combination of rich, salty, and savory. For a quick lunch or an afternoon snack, this croissant is a fantastic option.
For my sweet pastry, I opted for something unfamiliar: chocolate mont blanc. After a quick Google search, I realized that Belle Journée’s take on this pastry is far from traditional. Usually, a mont blanc has some combination of chestnut puree, baked meringue, and whipped cream, sometimes over a base of a tart crust. Here, the mont blancs resembled pain au chocolat in taste. It had a circular, domed shape with tall sides made of croissant dough filled with a light, milk chocolate cream and was covered in melted chocolate and pearl sugar. This dessert was probably my favorite of the selection. The flaky, soft center was contrasted by the crunchy outer layer. Although messy, the chocolate coating on the top added depth to the flavor, balancing the buttery pastry. The chocolate cream filling was light and fluffy. Smooth and sweet, I could eat an entire bowl of it on its own if they offered it.
Beyond pastries, Belle Journée’s website advertises soups, sandwiches, salads, and other lunch offerings. Like the pastries, some are traditional French options like the croque madame, but others are more American adaptations, such as their “Hawaiian Crunch” salad. Although I didn’t try any of the meal options, my experience with the pastries suggests they would live up to expectations.
Like its name suggests in French, a visit to Belle Journée would make a beautiful day. Whether you prefer your pastries sweet or savory, Belle Journée will certainly have something new for you to try — and it just might be worth the walk.
Lulu Pettit is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for The Prospect from the suburbs of Philadelphia. She can be reached at lp3153[at]princeton.edu or her Instagram @itslulupettit.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.While strolling Princeton’s campus, it is impossible not to see students rushing to class with a cup of coffee in hand. More often than not, these cups are dominated by the red-lettered printing of “Small World.” Yet just a single block away, charmingly nestled between The Bent Spoon and Thomas Sweet’s Chocolates in Palmer Square, exists an often overlooked coffee shop alternative to the enormously popular student go-to on Witherspoon.
Rojo’s Roastery, which first opened its doors at Princeton in 2013, is an artisan cafe serving coffee, tea, and a small selection of pastries. Placing an emphasis on supporting vulnerable coffee farmers across the globe, Rojo’s coffee seeks to be both delicious and sustainable. Despite its decade-long tenure, I believe Rojo’s is still unknown to most of the Princeton community.
Thus the question: is Rojo’s a hidden gem?
When I visited last Monday, I was warmly greeted by one of the baristas. While relatively small, the cafe’s few tables were filled with locals and students. I was pleasantly surprised by Rojo’s interior, with its distinctive red walls and classic “coffee shop” ambiance.
As I ordered a latte and a chai with a couple of pastries, including a traditional cinnamon bun and a more exotic guava cheese Danish, I could hear the soft humming of house music in the background. The cafe was the polar opposite of the usually bustling and chaotic Small World. Instead of Small World’s occasionally deafening chatter and teeming line, Rojo’s felt incredibly serene and pleasant. As I waited for my food, the baristas, all of whom were incredibly pleasant, exchanged inside jokes and friendly banter with one another, creating a close-knit and familiar atmosphere within the shop.
When my order finally arrived, I couldn’t help but feel as if I was on my way to discovering my new go to. There was only one final, yet most important test: the food.
Sadly, this is where my Rojo’s experience began to go downhill.
As someone who appreciates a coffee without any Starbucks-esque simple syrup taste, upon first sip, I still found Rojo’s latte far too bitter to enjoy. Then the cinnamon bun left much to be desired: even though it had a solid proportion of frosting to pastry, it tasted slightly dry and over-baked. The item I was most excited about, the guava cheese Danish, delivered a solid combination of crunch and flavor in each bite. However, the pastry was not quite the stellar combination I had hoped for. The two appetizing components would have worked better with other compliments. The one redeeming item was the Chai latte, as I found it to be a delicious blend of spiced flavors that delivered everything you would want from a Chai Latte: a sweet but not overpowering mix of rich milk, cinnamon, cardamom, and ginger.
Rojo’s may not be the perfect coffee shop secret I had hoped for before my visit, but there are still a number of reasons to go there. Firstly, the easy going people working there can make your day just that much better with a joke or spark of conversation. While the food and drink may not be the best in Princeton’s downtown, Rojo’s still can deliver a solid pastry or hot drink for that late-fall or winter study break. Further, if you ever want that classic coffee shop vibe in a more calm setting, Rojo’s is the place to go. So, the next time you want a break from the daily grind — pun intended — walk the extra block and try Rojo’s Roastery out for yourself.
Gavin McLoughlin, a member of the Class of 2028, is a contributing writer for The Prospect. He can be reached at gm9041@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On any given morning, Witherspoon Street’s Small World Coffee is packed with students studying between classes, professionals grabbing a quick cup to go, and old friends chatting over a warm beverage. The line almost always stretches out the door.
The shop’s air is thick with the scent of coffee beans and morning blends. Bags line the shelves across the aisle from the register, each small parcel bearing unique titles, like “Crispy Hippie,” “Morning Glory,” and “Love Blend.”
The baristas, or “Worldlings,” working behind the bar, click portafilters into espresso machines, occasionally yelling out the names of drinks (“Joe to go! Mocha with whipped cream! Iced Americano?”). A witty sign that reads “How have you bean?” hangs over the tip jar.
Small World celebrated its 30th anniversary in December 2023. Before owners and creators Jessica Durrie, also known as JD, and Brant Cosaboom brought their business idea to town, Princeton was lacking in coffee shops. Today, Small World operates two locations: one on Witherspoon St. and second on Nassau St., which opened in 2006.
The Daily Princetonian spoke with Durrie and employees at Small World Coffee to look at the origins and significance behind this community establishment, 30 years in the making.
Spending her childhood as an expat overseas, Durrie felt like a “fish out of water” as a student at the University of Michigan. After a year and a half, she dropped out and began “soul searching,” moving out to California.
Although she began working in restaurants to “pay the bills,” she soon “fell in love with the industry, and with hospitality and food and wine.”
She later got her undergraduate degree from Cornell Nolan School of Hotel Administration, after two and a half years of work experience. But, on a trip to Vienna to visit her brother, Durrie found her attention drawn to the coffee shops.
“I started visiting all the old world cafes there,” Durrie said. “And that's when I decided I wasn't going to open a restaurant, I wanted to open a coffee shop.”
After college, Durrie went straight to Michigan, rejecting other job offers to instead work at a coffee shop in Ann Arbor. “I wanted to learn the business from the bottom up,” she said. “And that's where I met Brant, at the coffee shop that we both worked at.”
The coffee shop was initially Durrie’s idea, and after some work in California, Cosaboom and Durrie both decided to pursue opening their own coffee shop.
“It was very strategic,” Durrie emphasized. “It wasn't this pie-in-the-sky idea, it was strategy and research…coupled with our practical experience and my degree from Cornell.”
After nine months “off and on” the road looking for the perfect location for their coffee shop, Durrie and Cosaboom landed in Princeton in 1993. They had originally “written [it] off,” because they thought the town was too small.
However, their minds were quickly changed.
“When we drove into the downtown, it was immediate,” Durrie said. “We saw the foot traffic, we saw the walkability, the retail mix, it was all there. It felt obvious to me that this was the town."
Durrie and Cosaboom immediately moved to town and started “pounding the pavement trying to get a landlord to rent to a 25-year-old and a 27-year-old.”
The name “Small World Coffee” was conceptualized during one of their 1993 road trips, and immediately resonated with both of them due to their shared experience as expats.
“When you grow up that way,” Durrie explained, “you start to see the commonality of all people, despite their cultural differences.”
For Durrie, her experience consistently having to find a sense of belonging has informed the ethos of Small World Coffee. Now, she reflects, “creating a sense of belonging [has] been sort of the backbone of the work that I've always done.”
Durrie believes that this belonging and community is created “from the inside out,” and noted that creating a sense of belonging for employees is integral for creating the same feeling for customers.
She added, “I think that we get the most out of people, the most out of humanity, when we all feel a sense of belonging, and then from there, we can do all sorts of amazing things.”
Durrie also noted the relationships Small World Coffee has cultivated within the community.
“The depth of relationships that have occurred behind that counter is insane,” Durrie said. “That web of relationships is a beautiful thing.”
Vincent Jule, the General Manager of Small World Coffee, oversees both the Nassau and Witherspoon locations. Jule, who has been with Small World for 23 years, described his experience working with the other Small World employees.
“One of the things that keeps [the Worldlings] around are the people that they work with, and the people that they meet,” Jule said. He added that Durrie and Cosaboom help to instill a “solid work ethic and sense of pride [and] integrity in what we do.”
When he was a new employee, Jule was impressed by the availability and involvement of Small World’s ownership, even seeing the owners washing dishes every now and then. “It always feels like a very collective experience.”
In 1997, Small World Roasters was created. “It's an integral part of the brand…having control over the quality of our coffee beans,” Durrie said. The roastery provides the blends offered for purchase in the shop, from “Colombian” to “Grumpy Monkey.”
The roastery has also allowed Small World to broaden their customer base to spaces like Witherspoon’s Café in Frist Campus Center, as well as farther away through mail orders. The roastery has over 60 wholesale customers, including The Bent Spoon, several eating clubs, many Whole Foods stores, and the Institute for Advanced Study.
Small World is also home to local artistry, displaying new art exhibits every month on the walls of the shop. The Witherspoon location hosts free public concerts on Saturday nights, featuring local bands who play their original songs. Jule said he tries to shed light on local musicians who don’t usually have the same amount of opportunities as cover bands.
Grace Phillips has been a Worldling at Small World Coffee for two years. Phillips grew up in West Windsor, and visited Small World and Princeton when she was younger.
After working in advertising copywriting for a decade, Phillips quit her job during the pandemic and applied to work at Small World Coffee. She wanted to do something that made her “feel like [she] accomplished something very specific at the end of the day.” Small World gave her that opportunity.
A typical day as a Worldling starts half an hour before opening. Rush times include the morning before people go to work, in between classes, or during coffee breaks. Worldlings spend an hour at each station during their shifts: the register, the espresso machine, bus station, and cleaning. Because the job can be very fast-paced, the rotation system prevents the Worldlings from burning out.
Jule estimates that Small World Coffee serves around 1,000 customers a day.
As a Worldling, Phillips has the opportunity to see the impact Small World has on its customers, residents, tourists, and students alike. She remarked on the interactions she has with tourists visiting the coffee shop, and she often directs them to fellow Princeton establishments in the area.
Phillips reflects on the “camaraderie” between Princeton shops, noting that employees from these establishments come to Small World as well.
“Princeton’s very busy. It’s small, but heavily trafficked,” Phillips said. “Even if we don’t know each other by name, necessarily, we all have each other's back[s].”
Phillips also reflected on how common the Pay with Points program has become since it was launched. She noted that there are some days and hours in which almost “every other transaction is a [Pay with Points] one.”
Phillips noted that the Worldlings at Small World aren’t unionized. “We are treated very well,” she explained. “There are very few service jobs that pay as well as this one, there are very few service jobs that have benefits, retirement, vacation, anything like that.”
Phillips also noted the ease with which she feels she can interact with the owners of Small World and raise complaints if necessary.
Durrie also commented on the treatment of Small World employees, citing fair compensation as the reason for the coffee shop’s “excellent employee retention.”
Small World Coffee is familiar to many Princeton students and residents. Siyeon Lee ‘27 studies at Small World almost every day, taking advantage of the Pay with Points partnership between the coffee shop and the University. Her go-to drink? “A light iced matcha to-go,” she said, without hesitation.
Lee is an assistant Opinion editor for the ‘Prince.’
For Lee, Small World is “really Princeton.” The coffee shop is a place where she sees “familiar faces,” and finds a unique community space for students off-campus. She visited Small World for the first time on move-in day.
“It felt like a movie when I walked in,” Lee said. “Kind of ‘Gilmore Girls’ vibes.”
She also notes that the continuous crowd and smaller space at Small World “fosters a communal vibe.”
To Jule, this sense of community is Small World’s mission, with coffee being a “vehicle for bringing people together.”
Mira Eashwaran is a staff Features writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any corrections requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.When I first started working at the Engineering Library Circulation Desk my first year, a friend I met during Outdoor Action invited me after my shift to visit him on the third floor of Fine Hall, home to the building’s common room. Soon enough, it became a place I returned to time and time again — to talk about crushes, have cookies and fruit, use the coffee machine, do my Italian homework, and even attempt to understand some of the math the students were doing.
As a SPIA major, I technically wasn’t “supposed” to be there, yet the Fine Hall common room became a space where my social anxiety seemed to melt away. The struggle of taking my first math class since freshman year of high school was only bearable because of the support of the math students. There was always someone willing to help explain a concept or just sit with me as I worked through problems so that I wouldn’t feel alone. The room itself had an unspoken understanding that no one was left to struggle by themselves with a problem, and that support — whether academic or sometimes even personal — was always a piece of chalk or shoulder tap away.
The Fine Hall Common Room isn’t just a study room lined with dozens of chalkboards — it’s where those who often feel isolated by their passion for math, or the societal pressures of the Princeton bubble, find a sense of belonging. Math majors or not, those who have experienced the Fine Hall Common Room are always drawn back to its sense of community and friendship.
Shreya Sinha ’26 is one of the students you might meet if you stop by the common room. She spends three to four hours there daily, drawn by the perhaps surprisingly collaborative nature of math — a quality she believes isn’t widely recognized.
“Math is often thought of as solitary, but in reality, it’s easiest to grasp when you’re bouncing ideas off of people who have taken the same classes or have different perspectives,” Sinha explains. The space, filled with a mix of graduate students, professors, and undergraduates, creates the perfect environment for spontaneous discussions.
“One of my professors even stopped by last semester when he saw me working on an interesting problem and just sat down to ask me about it,” Sinha recalls. The communal atmosphere extends beyond academics — every afternoon, Teatime brings students together over a wide range of biscuits and fruit, offering a chance to catch up with friends, casually approach their professors, or simply take a break from the MAT 218 problem set that has been consuming their days.
For Ezekiel Douglasrosenthal ’27, the common room isn’t just the most convenient place to tackle his multiple p-sets a week — it’s also the perfect spot to forget about the intricacies of the outside world.
“One night during exam season, we decided to take a break and make origami snowflakes. We stuck them to the ceiling as a joke, but when the staff said they were going to keep them up, it felt like we had left a small piece of ourselves in the space,” Douglasrosenthal recalls. To this day, visitors can still spot their handiwork hanging from the ceiling lights.
Sophia Huellstrunk ’25 remembers a time when the common room wasn’t as welcoming — particularly during COVID-19. She believes the community has come a long way since then, and the two to three hours she now spends there daily have become the highlight of her Princeton experience.
“It used to feel very quiet and exclusive, but now, there’s always a lively group around the coffee table, and you can jump into any conversation,” Huellstrunk shares. She loves the chalk-covered coffee table, where students constantly scribble down equations and diagrams, and she adores the red velvet cookies that sometimes appear at Teatime.
Andrew Pitolaj ’28, a physics major, didn’t initially expect to spend much time in the math department but found himself returning there.
“It’s just such a chill place,” Pitolaj says. “I thought I would be intimidated by the math prodigies, but instead, it’s one of the most welcoming places on campus.” Pitolaj often stays late — sometimes until 3 or 4 a.m. — because it’s one of the only places where he can actually concentrate. The coffee machine, despite the occasional inconvenience of it sometimes being broken, only adds to the homey feel of the space. “When you see someone working on higher-level math, it doesn’t make you feel out of place — it inspires you,” Pitolaj adds.
I've come to realize the Fine Hall Common Room is more than just a gathering space — it’s a home where a sense of community forms naturally over years of friendship and love for math. Whether it’s a professor casually explaining a theorem over coffee or a game of Four Square in the pavilion after being impromptu recruited in the common room, there’s a blend of academic rigor and social connection. Students huddle around chalkboards brainstorming solutions, while others lounge on couches flipping through textbooks. Chess matches unfold in one corner, and curious passersby pause to observe the discussions scribbled across the coffee table. It’s not uncommon for alumni to return, reminiscing about their own time in the common room and reconnecting with current students, sharing stories and advice that bridge generations of mathematicians.
For these students, math isn’t just a subject — it’s a way of life. As Elie Belkin ’26 puts it, the Fine Hall Common Room offers students an outlet to express their interests, goals, and hobbies.
“Most of us came from a solitary path in math,” Belkin says, “but this place turns something isolating into something communal and fun.” It transforms what can often be a lonely academic pursuit into a shared experience — one that fosters not just problem-solving but deep, lifelong friendships.
As I was preparing to leave, the students of the common room went back to finishing a p-set. Others returned with their late meal box of sushi while continuing casual debate about a complex proof. A student struggling with the weight of dozens of math books packed them into a wagon — his backpack simply couldn’t hold them all. The atmosphere was the same as when I was first invited as a first-year, and I hope that never changes.
Ruxandra Iosif is a junior in the Class of 2026 in SPIA, pursuing minors in Entrepreneurship and Journalism. She is a contributing writer for The Prospect for the ‘Prince.’ Originally from Romania, she can be reached at ri3238[at]princeton.edu or on Instagram @ruxandra_cristina.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On March 27, the majority of the Class of 2029 opened their Princeton acceptance letters. Pre-frosh are getting ready for Preview, fantasizing about and planning for their upcoming college careers, and familiarizing themselves with Princeton (and hopefully, with the ‘Prince’!).
Here, our first-year Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.
Embrace the awkward
Lily Halbert-Alexander, Assistant Opinion Editor
Freshman orientation is intense, saturated with the natural stress of immersion in an unfamiliar place. Most everyone reaches a point when recounting one’s name, hometown, and prospective major one more time feels unbearable, and hiding away in one’s room feels tempting.
It’s absolutely necessary, and healthy, to take time for yourself. At the same time, when I look back at the many times in the beginning of the school year I swore I would reach out for a meal with someone, I wish I had been more committed to following through.
Nerves were my main obstacle. I worried about running out of questions, gaping silences, and the prospect of being the first person to reach out. These matters now feel trivial; in retrospect, the glorious awkwardness seems to be the bedrock of freshman orientation. Orientation is a unique period of vulnerability, in that we are united by our collective inexperience with Princeton: the entire endeavor depends on getting up each day and figuring out how to live in a way we’ve never done before.
Moments of social uncertainty — in short, a really awkward dinner— are valuable in themselves, regardless of how they work out, because they remind us that the college experience is not about perfection. With each awkward dinner, we get one step closer to finding our people. The awkwardness was never going to be avoided, and I find myself wishing I’d spent less energy trying.
Lily Halbert-Alexander is an assistant Opinion editor and prospective English major from San Francisco. She can be reached at lh1157[at]princeton.edu
To find ‘your’ people, meet all people
By Ava Johnson, Columnist
Incoming frosh, you have likely spent your entire adolescence working super hard.
Most people I know here spent high school pushing themselves to excel academically, while stretching themselves thin across countless extracurriculars. I encourage you to check those priorities at Fitzrandolph Gate. You should try hard academically — but you should try just as hard to get to know as many people as you possibly can in your time at Princeton.
Some of the things you learn at Princeton will stick in your mind for the rest of your life, but some of the people you meet at Princeton will be in your life for the rest of your life. This place is full of incredible and interesting people. Every person I’ve encountered at Princeton has impacted my life in some way — not just my incredible friends, classmates, and peers. From the kind Facilities workers I pass on the way to the bathroom to the nationally known political commentators I’ve taken classes from, this community has meant so much to me. And I know them because I talked to them. Don’t be afraid to invite your professor to lunch, or compliment the cool shoes of the person sitting next to you in lecture. Don’t be afraid to reach out to as many people as possible and get out of your social comfort zone.
It’s still important to work hard — but don’t let that goal get in the way of meeting people. Odds are, the people around you are absolutely amazing.
Ava Johnson is a sophomore columnist and Politics major from Washington, D.C. Her column “The New Nassau” runs every three weeks on Thursdays. You can read all of her columns here. She can be reached by email at aj9432[at]princeton.edu.
Make Princeton your own
By Jorge Reyes, Columnist
After being accepted to Princeton, I used to daydream about studying in all the Gothic and picturesque buildings I had seen online, the places that made me even more excited to attend such a renowned university. I resolved to study someplace new each day in pursuit of the perfect study spot. However, after arriving on campus, I found that I had forgotten all about exploring the places I was once so excited to discover.
Over the summer, I spent much of my time near Yeh and New College West, as these residential colleges host students for the Freshman Scholars Institute — a summer program that allows FGLI students to come to campus before their first year and take classes for credit. Unfortunately, I did not do much exploring.
Once the academic year began, I studied at the same places daily. I spent countless nights studying in Frick Laboratory or Fine Hall. I did not realize that many of the beautiful buildings I pictured myself studying in would be nowhere near the classes I was taking — Firestone Library, Chancellor Green, and the study spaces in Mathey-Rockefeller are nowhere near the Frick Chemistry Laboratory.  Now, as my first year comes to an end, I am trying to revive my old mission. I’m exploring buildings and places I didn’t even know existed — it has added joy and variety to my days and reinvigorated my productivity.
Incoming freshmen, I encourage you to explore all parts of this beautiful campus, including those out of your way. Doing so will cultivate a deeper appreciation of the campus you’ll grow to love and help make the most out of your time at Princeton.
Jorge Reyes is a named opinion columnist for the ‘Prince.’ You can read his column, “No Tiger Left Behind,” every three weeks on Tuesday here. He can be reached at jr7982@princeton.edu
Try something new and regret it
By Lillian Paterson, Contributing Opinion Writer
When I came to Princeton, I had a pretty clear idea of what I wanted out of my college experience: to write about people, read about new things, and visit cool places. Because these are common experiences at Princeton, I initially felt satisfied with my classes, the extracurriculars I joined, and my new life as a Princeton undergraduate.
But after my first semester ended, I reflected on my time at Princeton so far and realized satisfaction isn’t necessarily happiness. Going to Princeton is more than feeling satisfied. It’s about joining and creating new worlds for yourself, venturing outside of your comfort zone, and remaining open to surprises. I sequestered myself into my pre-existing interests my first semester here. It was easy to limit myself to the pursuit of what I knew I was already interested in. But it’s always been hard for me to endure the anxiety that comes with unfamiliar waters.
At the beginning of my freshman year, I talked to a member of the Ultimate Frisbee Team at the club fair. It was great: I got excited about a sport I never thought I’d be interested in. I thought about joining for a couple days but never answered a text I’d received from an existing member. I regret that. Even if it didn’t stick, even if I had hated it, the experience of knowing and trying is worthwhile, it’s what Princeton’s all about.
Lillian Paterson is a first year prospective English major from Silver Spring, MD. She can be reached at lp3095@princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
I believe preservation of capital and significant liquidity should be Princeton’s guiding principle. Most importantly, there should be greater light shone on the endowment and how it is invested.For many Princetonians, daily campus life is experienced at a ground level.
Walking along Washington Road or passing through East Pyne Courtyard offers great views or insights into campus life that many of us take for granted while we are scuttling to our next class. However, when you adjust your vantage point, you can see this campus’s beauty from a greater perspective.
The next time you are near a window, see what you can see from above; you may see something brand new.
Ryland Graham is an assistant Photo editor for the 'Prince'
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Staff photographers captured the recent “Hands Off!” protest in town.
Staff photographers captured the early signs of Spring on campus.
a while ago
A factual account of Princeton, way back when.As the days lengthen and flowers bloom around campus, spring is finally upon us.
Magnolia petals line Princeton’s beautiful cobblestone paths and white blossoms flow through the breeze as students prepare for the busy weeks to come as the semester nears its end. Amid the blossoming trees, bustling libraries, and the arrival of warm weather after a series of long, dreary, rainy days, Coffee Club has released their spring menu — offering students a refreshing and flavorful escape from their workload. As a committed enjoyer of caffeine, I decided to embrace the opportunity and sample the new selection.
Ordered from my least favorite to favorite, here are the seasonal drinks Coffee Club is serving this spring:
There is perhaps a target audience for this drink; however, I cannot say I am part of it. My initial impression of this beverage was that it tasted like ginger ale and coffee mixed together, which, in my opinion, is not a combination that should ever be made. However, after sipping it a few more times, I could certainly see how someone could enjoy this carbonated drink. The espresso itself had a great flavor as it was strong, but not too bitter, offering an interesting balance to the earthy notes of the drink. After a few sips, delicious hints of elderflower become more apparent, creating a fruity and floral aftertaste. I cannot say I enjoyed the drink’s high acidity from both the espresso and carbonation, but it did provide a distinctive contrast in flavors. As someone who typically opts for a sweet beverage as their go-to form of caffeine, this drink was not for me. But those with an acquired taste for bitter drinks should consider ordering this on their next trip to Coffee Club.
I had a difficult time deciding on my ranking for the remaining three drinks, especially between the two coffees. Although this might change later on in time with maturing taste buds, the lavender latte takes third place for now. While I’ve met many lavender latte drinkers that swear by the drink, I’ve never been a die-hard fan of lavender-flavored coffee. Despite that, Coffee Club’s take on the drink was incredible. Upon the first sip, the drink’s flavor palate contained everything necessary for a dependable latte. The lavender was very subtle, with the taste only hitting you at the very last moment of every sip, but it still offered a unique floral earthy touch to a typical latte. Overall, I really enjoyed this drink and would highly recommend it. I opted for an iced version, and I’d say it’s the perfect afternoon pick-me-up on a busy sunny day. If one were to choose the hot version, I can imagine it’d provide a sweet sense of comfort and warmth on a rainy spring evening.
It was tough deciding which drink would take the top spot, but it really just came down to the nuances of personal preference. I appreciate a good matcha, especially in the spring, but at the end of the day, I am a coffee lover at heart. With that being said, if you aren’t a coffee drinker, the Mango Matcha Lemonade is the perfect spring beverage for you. The lemonade greets you with an exquisite balance of earthy flavors and sweet and tart fruitiness. The matcha provides a strong green tea flavor that somewhat overpowers the taste of mango, while still allowing it to shine through without making the drink overly sweet. The hints of lemon add an extra tang to the refreshment. Picture this drink in your hand on those occasional, beautiful sunny days that cheer up the dreary early spring weeks, as you walk around a suddenly now-lively campus and wind down after a long day of classes with some friends
For me, a perfect cup of coffee depends on the right amount of sweetness and the abundance of creaminess. Coffee Club’s Irish Cream Cold Foam Cold Brew is a flawless, dependable caffeine choice and the perfect combination of both of these things, making it first place in the line up. The cold foam offered a sweet vanilla flavor, enhanced with the rich Irish cream and the smooth velvety texture. This beverage is the ideal go-to drink, whether it is for a delightful start to a busy day of studying or a sweet treat to reward you for a long week of hard work.
Coffee Club’s spring drinks are the highlight of a tiresome week and the embodiment of the sun’s rays peeking through the clouds after a rainy day. Whether you need a dependable cup of caffeine or want to try something new, I highly recommend visiting one of Coffee Club’s two locations for an afternoon pick-me-up on a busy day of studying, or for a refreshment on a sunny day out with friends.
Natalia Diaz is a member of the Class of 2027 and a contributing writer for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at nd6595@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Noticed a different taste and look in your go-to pastry from Coffee Club? It’s not just you. At the start of the fall semester, Coffee Club changed their pastry provider to Delizioso, a pastry shop in Princeton, due to supply issues with their previous vendor, The Gingered Peach, which recently halted its deliveries to the student-run coffee shop.
“We’ve been working with The Gingered Peach pretty much since the beginning of Coffee Club’s history,” Amalia Haile-Manas ’25, the Executive Director of Coffee Club told The Daily Princetonian. According to Haile-Manas, the Lawrence Township-based business needed to focus its resources on the opening of its Trenton location, and thus no longer had the capacity to provide wholesale shipments of pastries to Coffee Club for the time being.
Though they had to search for a new pastry vendor, to fill the temporary gap, Haile-Manas described the switch as fairly easy, despite a short period at the beginning of the semester where the shop was left without pastries.
“We were pastry-less for about two days of school,” Haile-Manas explained. While she expected the entire transition to take a couple of weeks, all it took was a quick phone call and their new provider was able to begin supplying new pastries soon enough.
Delizioso, located at 205 Witherspoon Street, is the new pastry provider for Coffee Club. Due to the switch, Coffee Club will offer new baked goods, including donuts and a spinach-feta croissant.
“I haven’t personally gotten to try all the pastries yet,” Haile-Manas admitted, “but I’ve liked the ones I’ve tried, and people have been saying good things, so I think it’s been a success so far.”
She describes the club’s experience thus far with their new supplier favorably and has noticed a positive response from customers to the new products. However, if you are ever missing the taste of their old pastries, worry not — The Gingered Peach still supplies Small World Coffee’s pastries.
The new pastries from Delizioso seem to be flying off the shelves as almost all of them were sold out when I stopped by their Campus Club location. However, I managed to try two of their new pastries: a raspberry lemon scone and a puff pastry cinnamon roll.
The scone had the perfect amount of tanginess from the lemon, the right amount of crisp on the outside, and a nice soft texture on the inside, with the pleasant addition of dried raspberries and poppy seeds. Although the scone was quite delicious, I especially enjoyed the cinnamon roll. Upon the first bite, the layers of golden, flaky puff pastry offered the perfect texture for the rich buttery swirl of cinnamon. The glaze drizzled on top added the perfect balance of sweetness to contrast with the light spiciness of the cinnamon.
If you want to try something new to accompany your afternoon pick-me-up beverage, be sure to swing by Coffee Club in the coming weeks. No matter the vendor, there will always be an abundance of sweet treats available at both of their locations if you are ever in need of a boost of energy or satiating a sweet tooth. Hopefully, students will no longer have to suffer any more pastry-less days.
Correction: This article has been updated to clarify that The Gingered Peach will be unable to provide Coffee Club the pastries for a temporary period.
Natalia Diaz is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for The Prospect and a staff Audience creator at the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at nd6595[at]princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As the semester kicked into full gear and the most recent powdery snowfall melted away, Valentine’s Day set over campus late last week with talk of Datamatch and, of course, Coffee Club’s new seasonal drinks. The menu dropped just before the drinks themselves, styled as a vintage love letter and inviting busy students to indulge in the season’s sweetness. Always the romantic, I decided to grab a friend and head to NCW Coffee Club to try all the drinks when they were released at both Coffee Club locations.
4. Burning Love
This espresso tonic is spiked with what the menu describes as “touches of lime, blood orange, and habanero.” As soon as I sipped the drink through my straw, I was struck by the bright zing of lime and habanero. These overpowered much of the orange flavor, and I didn’t taste the espresso at all. In that regard, the drink lived up to its name, spicy and bold in a way that was certainly reminiscent of passion, but I don’t think it’ll be one of my seasonal go-tos. Admittedly, this could have more to do with my personal distaste for espresso tonics, a trait shared among Prospect reviewers. However, this drink could be a favorite if you’re a fan of espresso tonics.
3. The Cupid Cappuccino
In my mind, Cupid evokes love at first sight: unexpected and sweet. A cappuccino drink, The Cupid was rich with light hints of rose and decorated with delicate swirls of foam. The floral notes in the classic cappuccino were gentle, especially after the intensity of the Burning Love. Though I have a sweet tooth, I didn’t mind the subtlety of the Cupid Cappuccino. It tasted less like a definite, immediate spike in my blood sugar and more like a touch of seasonal flavor, making it a better choice for an everyday drink.
2. The Chocolate-Covered Strawberry
Invoking a popular Valentine’s Day treat, this drink offered a strawberry twist to a traditional mocha. Typically, I don’t go for mochas, because they are one of the few drinks that tend to cross the sugar threshold into saccharine, even for me. But I do love chocolate, and found the fruity addition to the rich chocolate notes of the drink to be delightful and refreshing.
For some, this drink may still read as overly sweet, but I think it depends on context, and this drink marks itself well. The Chocolate-Covered Strawberry doesn’t read as a drink you should siphon down before a 9 a.m. precept to get your caffeine fix. I picture it as a lovely dessert-like drink to grab in the mid-afternoon and sip for an hour or two while chatting with a friend or perhaps even your Datamatch.
1. The Sweetheart
As someone with a known affinity for the color pink, I was immediately biased towards The Sweetheart, with its blush-pink tint and light foamy top. Aesthetically, it was by far my favorite, but before sampling it, I was unsure of the flavor combination — a chai latte with dragonfruit cold foam. As soon as I took a sip, my apprehension was proven wrong. The fruity sweetness didn’t overwhelm the spicier chai latte, but balanced it. With aesthetics and flavors combined, this drink took the top spot for me, a romantic goldilocks that was neither too subtle nor too bold.
The Sweetheart and more can still be ordered at Coffee Club.
As with most seasonal releases, this year’s Valentine’s Day drinks provide a variety of flavor profiles and types of drinks, meaning that no matter the mood or situation, this menu has something for you, and invites all of campus to get into the spirit of the holiday.  After all, everything — including coffee — is sweeter in the company of loved ones.
Emma Cinocca is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for The Prospect. She can be reached at emmacinocca[at]princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As midterms approach, Coffee Club's new seasonal drinks have arrived to combat the fall semester slump: the Great Pumpkin Chai, Falling for Fall, the Newton, and the Snoopy Shaken Espresso.
Across their two locations, Coffee Club claims five head baristas who are in charge of planning seasonal menus. After the head baristas narrow down their initial choices of menu items, they contact their inventory managers to sample these potential drinks.
Ultimately, once a consensus is reached among the team members about the marketability and convenience of a drink, the team buys a larger supply of the necessary ingredients. The baristas repeat this process annually, as the seasonal drinks typically change every year.
I spoke with a head barista, Katie Greppin ’26, to better understand why the specific recipes for this semester’s autumn beverages had been chosen.
“We wanted to have something pumpkin, of course, but we were thinking [of] something different than the typical pumpkin spice latte,” Greppin said about the first specialty drink — the Great Pumpkin Chai.
The pumpkin spice chai latte is actually quite similar to a standard chai latte — milk is either heated or added cold, tea is steeped, and spices are added — only the inclusion of pumpkin syrup differentiates it.
I first tried this drink hot at the NCW location of Coffee Club, and it immediately became one of my favorites. There were sweet and warm notes that blended effortlessly with the various spices, amplifying the fall ambiance. Peeking through the plainness of the milk was the flavorful complexity of chai tea, accompanied by the comfortable and satisfying aroma of pumpkin.
One student I talked with, Jai Desai ’28, echoed my sentiments: “My favorite [drink] was the Great Pumpkin Chai ... You could really taste the pumpkin spice [coming] through.”
On the other hand, when I first had the “Falling for Fall,” I thought the flavor was a bit too homogenous. This brown sugar latte, only available hot and made with milk alternatives, has a spice blend of cinnamon, cardamom, and cayenne. I felt the espresso overpowered the distinct flavors that should have been present. Though the drink maintained its flavor, it lacked the depth I originally expected. Still, I enjoyed the taste of this latte, even though I normally don’t drink espresso. Greppin, on the other hand, favored the Falling for Fall, appreciating how it “tasted like a warm hug.”
The third specialty drink, the Newton, was the only drink I requested iced, though it can be offered hot as well. Cheekily named after Isaac Newton’s discovery of gravity from a fallen apple, this drink is a classic take on a caramel apple latte. Greppin clarified that the Newton was constructed by joining a regular latte with caramel and apple syrup. This was my least favorite addition to the new menu, as I felt the melted apple didn’t pair well with iced coffee. As the ice started to melt, I especially felt like the cohesiveness of the drink declined even further, and the flavors started to wane. If I had to try it again, I would definitely order the hot version of this latte, which I feel would amend many of my complaints.
The last specialty drink, unveiled on September 20, was the Snoopy Shaken Espresso. The Snoopy has brown sugar and pistachio syrup, which are added with ice and espresso to a shaker. After being shaken to aerate the espresso, the mixture is poured into a cup of ice over any type of milk. Although the taste of pistachio is prominent, the Snoopy uses artificial flavoring, so it’s actually nut-free. Greppin told me this was one of their most popular drinks, and after trying it, I understand why. In each sip, there was a perfect combination of nuttiness and sweetness, balanced by the background of espresso. The drink, in its totality, was consistent in flavor without sacrificing dimension. I could easily see myself returning to Coffee Club to purchase another.
Regardless of whether or not you consider yourself an avid coffee drinker, I recommend trying Coffee Club’s newest introductions to their menu. With each individual drink, there is a unique flavor profile that can appeal to anyone.
Princess Fodeke is a contributing writer for The Prospect from Valdosta, Georgia.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.When you think of compost, the fragrance of fresh coffee may not be the first thing you imagine. However, coffee rests at the heart of a longstanding sustainability partnership at Princeton.
Since Coffee Club opened in 2019, the student-led coffee shop has donated discarded coffee grounds to the Sustainable Composting Research at Princeton (S.C.R.A.P.) lab for composting operations. “The founder of Coffee Club reached out to our office to see how we could partner,” said Gina Talt ’15, Food Systems Project Manager at the S.C.R.A.P. lab. With coffee grounds being a convenient and effective compost material, the partnership was set in motion.
When making a customer’s coffee order, Coffee Club baristas prepare a “puck of grounds” for espresso, an evenly spread layer of coffee grounds filled into a portafilter. The even distribution of grounds ensures uniform water flow and resistance, optimizing flavor extraction from the grounds. When water channels through the puck of grounds, the espresso shot is created.
Managing the hefty weight of the buckets of coffee grounds has become a student job position with the Office of Sustainability. Talt referred to the student workers endearingly as “compost concierges,” whose work collecting compost materials spans across Robertson Hall, the International Food Co-op, as well as the Coffee Club locations.
Cade Hemond ’28 is one such compost concierge. On a Monday afternoon, I tagged along on his shift, during which he grabbed the keys to the Office of Sustainability van and drove along a route of campus locations to pick up compost buckets.
“When I was in high school, I led some initiatives with composting locally,” said Hemond, about why he applied for the job. “They were looking for someone who had a [driver’s] license and could carry compost buckets.”
Hemond first drove to NCW Coffee Club, where we collected compost bins full of coffee grounds. Afterward, we loaded the buckets into the trunk.
The compost generated from Coffee Club and dining hall waste is handed off to the S.C.R.A.P. lab to be processed. Then, the campus grounds team handles sanitation and brings raw materials in for compost.
Coffee grounds are especially useful in the composting process due to their fine structure, which can help aerate and improve compost drainage. Coffee grounds are also nitrogen-rich with a good moisture content and particle size, according to Talt.
“It’s kind of like making a cake — any recipe where you need to balance ingredients to have a thriving microorganism population,” said Talt. “When you build a recipe for composting, you want proper carbon and nitrogen ratios.”
Compared with coffee grounds, food waste is higher in nitrogen content, which must be balanced out with a carbon-rich material. While inedibles such as coffee grounds, avocado pits, and prep trimmings can easily be taken into the system, fats, oils, and grease within cooked food in dining hall waste can present problems of odor and impact the moisture content.
“It is interesting thinking about the different types of waste that we produce and how we manage that,” said Hemond. “My job at S.C.R.A.P. lab is very much focused on carbon-dense food waste, like the coffee grounds, whereas the dining hall waste [has] all kinds of stuff in there. So, the processing can be quite different.”
The S.C.R.A.P. lab also has to contend with non-compostables being placed in compost bins, an issue that Talt said has been on the rise. In the Fall 2024 semester, the Frist Center compostables bin had an average nine percent contamination rate, according to data from the S.C.R.A.P. Lab sent to the ‘Prince’ by Talt. In early February of the Spring 2025 semester, that rate had risen to 13 percent.
Some of the compost then goes back to campus to be used for planting.
“We’ll take the compost for our soil-making yard, and we’ll utilize compost as part of our soil amendment to make all our planting soil,” said Robert Staudt, assistant director for Campus Grounds at Princeton University.
“I would think that maybe some students are like, ‘Is it really going someplace?’” said Staudt. “It’s hard to see, but that cup [of coffee] is now all of a sudden this nice, rich brown soil over here. You don't necessarily equate the two, but it does happen over a couple weeks or months.”
Allison Jiang is a contributing Features writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As the days grow shorter and a crisp chill fills the air, the winter season has officially arrived at Princeton. Amid the buzz of preparation for finals and the promise of a well-deserved holiday break, Coffee Club has unveiled its new and anticipated holiday menu: a lineup of festive drinks specially crafted to keep spirits bright and energy levels high.
Coffee Club announced the new additions to its menu over the course of several days last week, building anticipation for the awaited beverages. Every day, starting Monday, Nov. 18, a new, cleverly named, and intriguing drink was announced, culminating in a launch party on Friday, Nov. 22 — with all five new drinks available at both locations, at a discounted price.
Whether you’re chasing the warmth of spiced flavors, a hint of classic holiday peppermint, or the richness of a great latte, these drinks promise to bring a little extra cheer to your study sessions. As a lover of caffeine and all things festive, I decided to seize the opportunity to sample the new selection and indulge in the seasonal offerings.
Ordered from my least favorite to my favorite, here are Coffee Club’s new holiday drinks, reviewed:
Although Persephone is known in Greek mythology as the goddess of spring, this drink was wittily named after one of its main flavors — pomegranate — a fruit that, according to legend, bound Persephone to the underworld and brought winter to the world above.
While I appreciated the astute title, which reminded me of my love for ancient mythology, I cannot say this drink was my favorite from the menu due purely to personal preference. The Persephone is a pomegranate espresso tonic, and I generally don’t enjoy espresso tonics — carbonated espresso beverages served with tonic water over ice. However, for those who do, this drink was incredibly well made. The espresso itself was strong, but not too bitter, and I appreciated the sweet tartness of the pomegranate syrup.
Espresso tonics are an acquired taste, which I have yet to acquire — and I doubt I ever will. But if your taste buds are more developed and sophisticated than mine, The Persephone may be the drink for you.
As an avid matcha enjoyer and a self-proclaimed Grinch apologist, I was excited to try this peppermint matcha named after the grumpy, yet beloved, green thief of Christmas. Upon first sip, I was caught off guard by the flavor — specifically, the way the mint complemented the matcha’s earthy flavor. I was hesitant to give it another try, but after a few minutes, I was glad I did. It was a lot more “planty” than I expected, which I tend to prefer. Available iced or hot, I opted for the hot option and chose to have it with some oat milk. The beverage ended up being a very soothing warm experience that was emphasized by the creaminess of the oat milk and distinguished by its minty flavor.
The character of the Grinch taught us about the importance of second chances, and I am certainly glad I gave the drink one. I would definitely order this again and recommend it as a calming and cozy choice to accompany a late-afternoon study session.
The Frostbite is a cherry vanilla latte, available iced or hot with either soy or oat milk. As long as you like cherry, you cannot really go wrong with this drink. I opted for the iced oat option and really enjoyed it. The cherry flavor was very subtle and blended well with the rest of the drink’s notes. Coffee Club’s lattes are always very dependable — proven by perfectly balancing the strength of espresso, the creaminess of milk choice, and just the right amount of sweetness. I will say, though, that the Frostbite was on the sweeter side, due to its combination of cherry syrup and vanilla flavoring, but I did not mind this at all and look forward to purchasing the beverage anytime I am craving a sweet treat after lecture.
I was pleasantly surprised by the hot honey fog, complete with chai, honey syrup, steamed milk, and a dash of cayenne pepper. My spice tolerance tends to vary — although I enjoy the warming spices commonly found in chai, like cinnamon, ginger, and cardamom, I can be more sensitive to sharper notes, so I was a bit worried about the cayenne’s strength prior to my first sip. However, the drink was delicious. The spice of the chai was perfectly offset by the velvety steamed milk and sweetness of the honey. The cayenne added only a slight kick at the end, quickly soothed by the next sip.
I love peppermint-flavored drinks — especially a good peppermint mocha — so I was very excited when the Snowtorious, a peppermint mocha, available hot and iced with any milk, was announced as the final addition to Coffee Club’s holiday menu.
I hear Santa values honesty, and to ensure I stay on the nice list this year, I am going to be upfront and admit I was unable to try this drink myself due to my early departure from campus. Although I do not have to try this drink to know it is delicious: I sent out my trusted friend, and roommate, to sample this drink for me. Despite her distaste for mochas, she really enjoyed its flavor. She opted for a hot cup, which she described as a perfect refuge from the cold weather and credited the subtle peppermint note as an exemplary finishing touch.
Coffee Club’s holiday drinks are the perfect remedy for the long, chilly days and the stress of finals season. Whether you’re seeking a dependable caffeine fix or a chance to indulge in something new and cheerful, I highly recommend stopping by one of Coffee Club’s two locations. Embrace the holiday magic, and let Coffee Club's menu be your coziest companion this season.
Natalia Diaz is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for The Prospect at the 'Prince.' She can be reached at nd6595@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.I am an avid fan of iced drinks. In fact, I run to Nassau Street multiple times a week for a Sakrid Coffee Roasters cold brew or an iced matcha from Small World. However, my preferred drink will always be coffee — particularly espresso.
To put it simply, I adore espresso. I grew up with both sides of my family — Greek and Cuban — enjoying a cup of espresso no matter the time of the day. In the morning, my parents would drink a shot of warm espresso. In the afternoon, they would have two or three more shots with ice. After dinner, it was back to a hot shot of the coffee like in the morning. Espresso was a part of my childhood that has never faded away. It is something that I learned to obsessively crave and enjoy every day. In fact, I love it so much that I worked at a coffee shop in high school just to drink more of it on a regular basis. I even have an espresso machine in my dorm room.
In honor of one of my favorite musicians, Sabrina Carpenter, releasing her new single “Espresso,” I wanted to share my top recommendations for espresso in Princeton to pay homage to the coffee establishments that I spend so much of my time in. While this beverage ranking is subjective, I wish to share my favorite places that I find myself returning to continuously.
When I go to Small World, I usually only get the iced matcha or NoLa cold brew; I get both of these drinks weekly. However, I now find myself running to get espresso at this staple coffee shop all the time. Small World’s espresso tastes sweet yet sophisticated, with multiple layers to each sip. It is simple, without too many prominent, differing tones that would overcomplicate the coffee’s essence and thus reduce it down to an occasional type of drink. Their espresso has become a daily craving of mine.
I appreciate the convenience of Coffee Club. Whether you are heading up-campus or down-campus, the two flagship locations at Campus Club and Addy Hall in New College West make it easy to get a drink to-go. I usually order two shots of espresso, only over ice. Coffee Club’s espresso tastes the best when cold, which helps boost its flavor profile. There is a slightly nutty, earthy taste that I really like. While occasionally I have had it hot, the ice creates the perfect blend of bitter and delicate boldness: a must try for all.
Chez Alice’s beautiful ambiance is a joy in every regard. The adornment of the shop is complemented by the aroma of the plethora of sweets on display for sale. However, I always go to Chez Alice with the intention of ordering hot espresso. Their espresso is best served in a steaming cup, which brings out its most delectable aroma. It is warm and inviting, the type of coffee that makes you feel as if you are drinking a cup in the comfort of your own home. This is one of those circumstances where breathing in the wafting smoke of the coffee is just as enjoyable as drinking it.
Sakrid is my absolute favorite coffee place in Princeton, and maybe even the best that I have ever had. In fact, if I had to only have espresso from one place in Princeton, my answer would always be Sakrid. Its espresso is delicious both hot and cold. I personally find it difficult to have a shot that works well both hot or over ice. Oftentimes at other shops, the espresso needs to be diluted with ice due to its extreme bitterness, or it is already too watery and thus can only be drunk hot. However, Sakrid’s espresso is beyond marvelous no matter how it is made. There is a velvety boldness to each sip that keeps me returning to it over and over again. It is always consistent; their coffee never is a hit-or-miss. I usually get a double shot over ice: the key to my perfect day.
Christopher Nunez is a staff writer for The Prospect from Point Pleasant, N.J. He can be reached at christophern@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The continuous chatter of the lunchtime rush floats around the corner-lot cafe and bakery of Delizioso. The woman behind the counter, Lynne, converses with a customer-turned-close friend. A man, Eric, greets a steady stream of hungry businessmen by name, rattling off inside jokes and anecdotes. Meanwhile, bursts of laughter, the crunches of perfectly-crispy sandwiches, and the faint clatter of pans in the kitchen all add spice to the sweet air that fills Delizioso, Coffee Club’s new pastry provider.
In March 2020, Eric and Lynne Weshner, husband and wife and owners of Delizioso, envisioned an eatery centered around a love for food and the joy it brings to people. By May 2021, renovations on 205 Witherspoon Street were complete and Delizioso opened its doors to the Princeton community. Eric, a former NYC Police Department detective, and Lynne, a former nurse, had no formal training in running a bakery. However, they knew that leaning on their support system of customers, both old and new, would allow them to turn their vision into reality. By catering to the community, local offices, and the University, Delizioso seems to have achieved that vision for their business.
In September 2024, Coffee Club reached out to Delizioso with hope that they would become the student-run coffee shop’s new pastry provider.
“I was astonished and honored,” recalled Eric.
Delizioso’s owners take pride in this recently established collaboration. Eric mentioned that he and his staff now come in earlier to fulfill Coffee Club’s order and, most importantly, to bake pastries the same day they are delivered.
“We don’t make stuff the night before, everything is fresh,” he added.
The quality of baked goods is important to Delizioso, which is already evident to Princeton’s Coffee Club aficionados. Students have been exceptionally pleased with Delizioso’s pastry selection. Coffee Club has even requested an increased supply of spinach and feta croissants in their order from Delizioso.
While visiting the bakery, I opted for “The Isa” sandwich to try out a lunch item that is not available at Coffee Club, but offered at Delizioso’s storefront location. The sandwich contained the classic sandwich ingredients of avocado, lettuce, and tomato, along with pepperjack cheese, potatoes, and scrambled eggs to add a rich, savory component — all of which were wedged in a kaiser roll. With each bite I took, I relished each unique flavor that blended together under the warmth of the sandwich. I also had the pleasure of trying a chocolate chip cookie. It was a large, thin cookie containing scattered chocolate chunks that did not make it overwhelmingly sweet. Apart from these items that I tried, Delizioso’s menu contains a plethora of dietary-friendly options including vegetarian, vegan, gluten free, or dairy free dishes spanning from scrumptious baked goods to hearty, savory meals.
“It’s all about community,” Eric said of his and Lynne’s mindset for running Delizioso. “We love food and we love people.”
The couple is proud of the rapport they have built with Princeton students. In fact, Eric and Lynne are strong supporters of the University and often attend Princeton sporting events. They especially love it when student-athletes visit Delizioso with their parents. Eric reflected on members of the 2024 Summer U.S. Olympic team who were once Princeton rowers and would frequent Delizioso for a morning treat after a tough workout on Carnegie Lake.
“We’ve always wanted to come to a neighborhood and be an anchor in the neighborhood,” he noted.
This meaningful community presence extends to the Princeton residents as well: Eric and Lynne have continually befriended customers, even later attending some of their weddings and birthdays. Additionally, they invest in other Princeton small businesses by sourcing eggs and vegetables from local farms.
With the introduction of Delizioso’s goods into Coffee Club, it is evident that each cafe’s values align with and amplify one another. The atmosphere of Delizioso mirrors that of Coffee Club; like Delizioso, the community at Coffee Club is one of close companions and great food. At either of Princeton’s Coffee Club locations, it is easy to imagine a mid-day study break, where one might pass by a table of dedicated math students discussing a p-set. The baristas are fellow students, and the customers are old friends that are catching up while waiting for a coffee and chocolate croissant. At Coffee Club, like Delizioso, the taste of community and tasty food is savored in each new bite. So, the next time you are out in town, stop at Delizioso for a bite. And if you can’t quite escape campus, make sure you get a taste of Delizioso at Coffee Club.
Ysabella Olsen is a member of the Class of 2028. She is a contributing writer for The Prospect and copy editor at the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at yo7647[at]princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Coffee shops are a staple of fall culture. Imagine curling up in the corner of a cozy cafe with a sweater, a chill in the air, and your favorite seasonal drink. Of course, the most iconic of all fall drinks is the pumpkin spice latte.
Many coffee shops in Princeton have their own spin on autumn-themed beverages. While contributing writer for The Prospect Princess Fodeke ’28 already gave a great review on Coffee Club’s fall options, I was curious how they compare to other seasonal pumpkin-spice drinks offered in the local area.
As noted by Fodeke, Coffee Club’s pumpkin chai is a crowd favorite. It’s made as a regular chai latte, spiced up with a shot of pumpkin syrup. Unlike most pumpkin spice-flavored items — which would typically include an array of spices like cinnamon, cardamom, and ginger more so than pumpkin — this drink has genuine pumpkin flavoring. Coffee Club’s chai is a sweet, cinnamon-forward chai — a far cry from the spicy Lion’s Mane Chai at Small World — with the pumpkin adding a subtle depth of flavor.
Price: $5.45
Best for: sweet chai lovers not looking for too strong of a pumpkin flavor.
I had heard my friends rave over the Pumpkin Cream Cold Brew at Small World, but at such a steep price, is a cold brew with special foam really all that special? Yes, it definitely is. First, I sipped the cold brew without mixing. The cold brew featuring a sharp, strong coffee flavor. Then, I tried the pumpkin cream on top. It was very sweet, but the sweetness was cut by the cinnamon and the strong, earthy flavor of pumpkin. It was so delicious that I scooped multiple spoonfuls into my mouth before mixing it into the coffee. Together, the flavor profile was enhanced, and the bitterness of the cold brew was eased by the pumpkin cream while still maintaining a sharp taste of coffee.
Price: $7.50
Best for: coffee folks looking for a pumpkin-forward flavor.
Although Playa Bowls is traditionally known for their açai bowls, they also offer coffee drinks, including the fall special Pumpkin Sweet Cream Cold Brew. The name of the drink closely mirrors that of Small World’s, but the addition of “Sweet” highlights both a subtle distinction in the name and a noticeable difference in flavor. For starters, Playa Bowls’s version has the sweet cream already mixed in, so you never taste the pure pumpkin and spice cold foam individually. Although Playa Bowls’ beverage had more of a pumpkin flavor than Coffee Club’s, it wasn’t as intense as Small World’s, finding a middle ground that leans on pumpkin more than spices, while still welcoming the toasty, slightly nutty flavor of the chicory coffee that Playa uses. As chicory coffee, it’s also naturally decaf, so if that’s what you’re looking for, this might be the drink for you.
Price: $5.50
Best for: decaf drinkers who want a balance of pure sweetness and pumpkin flavor.
Of all the pumpkin-spice drinks, the seasonal drink I tried at illy Coffee was definitely the least spiced. Their four seasonal drinks offered two pumpkin spice-themed ones: the pumpkin marshmallow latte and the pumpkin chai latte. I opted for the former, since I thought the marshmallow flavor might make it stand out among the drink lineup. However, upon trying the latte, I actually thought that the toasted marshmallow syrup masked the house-made pumpkin syrup. The result was a much more traditional sweet latte. Although I enjoyed the drink, I didn’t think the traditional flavors of autumn came through strongly. Their pumpkin chai might be a different story, though, as the cinnamon and spices in the chai latte could encourage a warmer, conventional taste of the season.
Price: $6.75 ($5.74 with student discount)
Best for: someone wanting a sweet dessert drink with a straightforward flavor profile.
While finishing this review, a friend asked me which drink I was going to dub the best pumpkin spice drink in Princeton. However, while trying each latte, I realized that there isn’t one “best” — each cafe brings their own unique spin to a seasonal classic. To celebrate the onset of autumn, you can’t go wrong with any of these pumpkin spice latte options.
Lulu Pettit is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for The Prospect from the suburbs of Philadelphia. She can be reached at lp3153[at]princeton.edu or her Instagram @itslulupettit.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As Princeton students finish their last midterms before fall break, the Honor Code pledge is becoming second nature to many. Princeton’s Honor Code binds students to a set of academic integrity intended to be upheld by the student body. The Honor Code has been praised by some as a way to promote dignity and integrity, while its disciplinary process has been criticized by some as a mentally taxing and unfair.
How many students have dealt with the Honor Committee and Committee on Discipline, the two administrative bodies that govern academic violations and investigate and prosecute possible violations, in the last year? The Daily Princetonian looked at the statistics released by the two committees to see offenses students have been accused of for the most recent year with an available report and how many of these cases result in a student being found responsible. The statistics demonstrate again that the bulk of cases fall on the Committee on Discipline, whose case load is staggeringly high compared to the Honor Committee.
The Honor Committee is made up of 15 students, and decides on appropriate consequence after it issues a finding of responsibility – anything from a reprimand to an expulsion. Consequences can be appealed to the Office of the Dean of the College. Between fall 2017 and spring 2022, about 18 percent of cases referred to the Honor Committee resulted in a student facing punishment for their actions. A slightly smaller percentage of cases – 17 percent – progressed to a formal hearing, but did not result in a student being found responsible. This means that of the Honor Committee cases that had a hearing, just over half – about 52 percent – resulted in a punishment being handed down from the Committee.
The types of Honor Committee cases that had the highest percentage of students being held responsible were plagiarism and doctoring a regrade, though these categories only had one case each. Doctoring a regrade may mean changing a test that has been handed back and then returning it to ask for a regrade. Unauthorized use of materials had the next highest percentage of cases resulting in punishment, with 23 percent of reported cases leading to a student being found responsible of wrongdoing.
No students who were accused of removing an exam from a room, copying from a peer, or failing to submit an exam were found responsible by the Honor Committee for their alleged violations.
The most common type of Honor Code violation reported is the unauthorized use of materials, representing about 40 percent of all cases. More than half of the cases in this category did not specify the type of unauthorized material used, with almost a third of these resulting in punishments. Of the unauthorized materials specified by the Honor Committee, phones were the most common material used, with eight violations reported. Just two of these students were found responsible for unauthorized phone use during an exam.
Students have also been disciplined for breaking University policies outlined in the Rights, Rules and Responsibilities. These punishments are handed out by the Committee on Discipline, made of students and faculty. Since the Committee on Discipline has jurisdiction over a broad range of non-academic violation and any academic violation outside of an in-class exam, the number of cases are much higher by an order of magnitude.
In contrast to the more limited role of the Honor Committee, the Committee on Discipline has a much wider scope in terms of types of violations and caseload. 1,072 cases were referred to the Committee on Discipline in one year compared to just 76 for the Honor Committee over four.
The most common Committee on Discipline case type from the 2021-2022 school year was Health and Safety, representing almost 70 percent of the case total. Of these 742 cases, 730 resulted in students being held responsible. According to the disciplinary report, “the vast majority of the health and safety violations were regarding noncompliance with COVID and public health policies,” with reprimands coming after a warning. Of the 164 alcohol cases reported, 157 resulted in students found responsible for violating University rules, 109 of which came from a single, off-campus case.
While fewer than 20 percent of Honor Committee cases result in students being held responsible, over 95 percent of Committee on Discipline cases led to a findings of wrongdoing.
The Committee on Discipline has been criticized in the past for a more opaque decision-making process. In an interview with columnists for the ‘Prince,’ one anonymous member of the Committee said that certain other members lack “even a pretense of impartiality” during Committee hearings as demonstrated by “extremely leading questions.”
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ Dean of Undergraduate Students Kathleen Deignan wrote that “the Committee is explicitly told not to ask leading questions and to refrain from drawing any conclusions until they have heard from all parties during the hearing. We have not witnessed any student member of the Committee being pressured to assume anything about the facts until all information has been considered.”
For academic violations, the number of findings of responsibility by the Committee on Discipline seems to have declined over time, from 82 in the 2020-2021 school year to 50 in the 2021-2022 school year.
The harshest discipline the Committee handed down in the past school year was a one-year suspension, which they gave as punishment for a second academic violation in both cases where it was applied.
Students can be represented by Peer Representatives in cases facing both the Honor Committee and the Committee on Discipline.
Charlie Roth is a head Data editor and senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Ryan Konarska is an associate Data editor and staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.At the Oct. 6 meeting of the Undergraduate Student Government (USG), members voted to change the Honor Code process in two key areas, resulting in the approval of three additional seats in the Honor Committee and an adoption of the new “suspension (not served)” section.
This vote will allow the Honor Committee to expand from 15 members to 18, with the intention of ensuring a timely hearing for students accused of violating the Honor Code. In the past, the Honor Committee received several new cases at the end of the Spring semester due to cheating allegations related to finals. According to members of the committee, this made it difficult to promptly adjudicate cases, as members had to coordinate online and across time zones during the summer. The Committee hopes that the increased number of members will make these predictable spikes in caseload more manageable.
“[The] timeline of when the violation occurred affects how quickly a case can be heard,” said Honor Committee Chair Caroline Schückel ’25, who fielded questions on the expansion during the meeting. “That’s not what should be a deciding factor … cases being heard more quickly, and having extra capacity is really important because the anxiety that must come with knowing you have a case, and not knowing when it's going to be heard … takes a pretty heavy toll on people.”
Schückel stressed the importance of this expansion to support the student body, along with the second change in the Honor Code that also passed a senate vote. The new Honor Code now includes a section on the suspension (not served) disciplinary sanction for a case adjudicated by the Honor Committee.
This motion to implement the suspension (not served) sanction was approved unanimously by all members of the Senate. A factor contributing to its adoption is the harshness of a suspension. The University does not allow students to graduate in the winter, which effectively forces students to take an entire year away.
Schückel previously told the ‘Prince’ that the sanction is intended to carry the weight of suspension without requiring the student to leave the University, and will move the Honor Committee in a “kinder” direction.
“It’s really different to have someone be, essentially, not at school for a year versus probation for a semester,” she said. “Having suspension (not served) allows for ... a middle ground option.”
Schückel also facilitated the approval of five new members to the Honor Committee, selected through an application emailed to students. The selections were  unanimously approved by the Senate.
“These five stood out to us,” said Schückel. “We can teach people procedures, but we can’t teach people to be compassionate and to conduct themselves that way with students who are under investigation.”
The Senate will vote on an approval for the Undergraduate Student Life Committee’s budget request at a later date. The proposal includes funding for student roundtable discussions — first initiated in the Spring 2024 semester — as well as new projects that aim to bring together students and undergraduate student leaders. This request includes funding for wellness programming during finals week.
Devon Rudolph is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Honor Committee released statistics for the 2019–24 academic years at the end of March, following reporting from The Daily Princetonian on a two-year absence of the committee’s data, which are typically published annually. Data since 2022 had previously not been reported.
The statistics, released in a report aggregating data from the past five years, include violations of the Honor Code, such as collaboration with a peer, unauthorized use of outside materials, doctoring a regraded examination, writing overtime, and failing to submit an examination.
According to the Honor Committee’s constitution, the committee is composed of up to 18 members who represent the student body and address violations of the Honor Code. Article V states that “every year, the Committee will publish aggregated, anonymous statistics for the last five years.”
The chair of the Honor Committee, Nadia Makuc ’26, said that the delay in publishing the statistics was due to “clerical errors and miscommunication of responsibilities.”
Fifty-one violations of the Honor Code were reported from Fall 2019 to Spring 2024. Thirty-one of these went to hearings, or about 60 percent of all violations. Eighteen were found responsible, or 35 percent of all violations. Of the cases that went to hearings, 58 percent were found responsible.
The highest number of violations was for unauthorized use of outside material, including generative AI. These unauthorized uses of outside material made up 24 violations — or 47 percent of all violations — and 11 were found responsible.
The most commonly used kind of prohibited materials was listed as “other/not listed.” This consisted of 90 percent of all cases that were found responsible, or 10 out of 11 total. The use of generative AI falls into the “other/not listed” category.
The second highest violation was collaboration, which had 16 violations — 31 percent of all violations — of which two were found responsible.
From Fall 2017 to Spring 2022, the Honor Committee saw similar numbers. During that period, there were 76 violations, 27 of which were moved to a hearing and 14 of which were found responsible.
While the Honor Committee reviewed 51 infractions over the past five years, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board found 378 violations for the 2023–24 academic year alone.
Princeton’s Committee on Discipline is responsible for all academic integrity violations besides those that relate to in-class examinations. The committee consists of at least six members of the faculty, eight undergraduate students, and the Deputy Dean of the College. The committee also oversees behavioral violations, such as alcohol and drug use. According to the annual discipline report, many violations also get reviewed by the dean of undergraduate students through “Dean’s Dispositions” and the Residential College Disciplinary Board.
The possible penalties for those found responsible include a dean’s warning, a reprimand, disciplinary probation lasting three to 48 months, suspension lasting one to four semesters, a suspension not served, the withholding of a degree, and expulsion.
Of the 378 total infractions, the committee reported 63 academic infractions, for which 42 students were found responsible. These violations included plagiarism and collaboration without recognition.
The 2023-24 discipline report details an “increase in the use of generative AI,” such as ChatGPT, in the cases released from 2024. Ten cases involved the use of ChatGPT on take-home exams, where students copied directly from the AI chat.
The most common penalty for academic integrity violations was disciplinary probation, with 25 students receiving this penalty. Examples of where this penalty was used include a “very limited amount of plagiarism.”
According to the report, this type of violation also includes “reflecting carelessness rather than an intent to misrepresent authorship.” This includes instances where “the assignments were worth a small portion of the course grade,” or if the student failed to fully cite passages.
Of the 378 infractions, 158 were due to the use of alcohol — 42 percent of all infractions. One hundred and twenty-one students were found responsible. Low-risk alcohol violations included “the possession of an open container of alcohol in a common space” and having drinks with less than 30 percent alcohol content at the hosting of a gathering.
One of the penalties given to a student was 48 months of disciplinary probation for “submitting inaccurate information to the Financial Aid office” to obtain financial aid. Another student received 48 months for “striking a Department of Public Safety officer as they attempted to bring the student to medical care.”
The year before, from 2022–23, the disciplinary report disclosed 515 infractions, for which 336 students were found responsible.
Clara Docherty is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: this piece has been updated to better reflect the parties that hear the cases and the possible penalties imposed by the Committee on Discipline. Additionally, this piece has been updated to reflect that reported infractions are not referred cases; the lower number of students found responsible is because students can be found responsible for multiple infractions.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
Several academic departments have distributed emails warning community members about visits from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and information on what to do if officers come to campus.In the Undergraduate Student Government elections in December 2017, four referenda to amend the Honor Committee Constitution passed by a three-fourths majority. The referenda called for a range of reforms including increased transparency and reduced penalties. However, a few days later, the University announced that it would not permit the implementation of three of the four referenda because they were “too significant to be implemented without faculty approval.”
More than five years later, the ‘Prince’ reviewed annual reports and interviewed current and former chairs of the Honor Committee to hear their view about how their processes have changed since the rejected referenda. Honor Committee chairs note that many aspects of the proposed reforms were implemented following University administration’s approval and there have been other improvements to the process.
However, Honor Committee members also noted that the scope of the scale of the student-led Honor Committee pales in comparison to the student-faculty Committee on Discipline (COD). While the 2017 referendum drove the focus of reform to the Honor Committee, the COD handles the majority of disciplinary cases, including significantly more academic disciplinary cases.
Recent surveys have shown that the student body is deeply distrustful of the Honor Code.
For the second year in a row, The Daily Princetonian’s senior survey found that the Honor Code is extremely unpopular among students. This year’s survey revealed that 62 percent of respondents have a “strongly” or “somewhat unfavorable” view whereas only 16 percent have a “strongly” or “somewhat favorable” view. In 2022, those numbers were 55 percent and 23 percent, respectively.
These numbers may, in part, have been fueled by a ‘Prince’ investigation in 2021 which chronicled “a story of spiraling mental health, institutionalized alienation, and renewed hopes for reform.” There have been multiple criticisms of the Honor Committee in the ‘Prince’s pages: in 2022, Benjamin Gelman ’23 called on students not to  join the Honor Committee.
In the most recent Senior Survey, results found that most students do not feel optimistic about the trajectory of the Honor Committee with the vast majority of students saying there has been no improvement during their time at the University. The most recent substantial changes to the Honor Code were made three months prior to their matriculation.
“What I hope people will take away is that a number of the important reforms, like the standard penalty and whatnot, did wind up getting changed and have had a significant impact on the way the Committee does its deliberations,” said former Honor Committee chair Dylan Shapiro ’23.
The referenda introduced in 2017 had four parts: reduce the “standard penalty” to a one-semester suspension from a year-long suspension, require an additional piece of evidence outside of a report in order for a case to proceed to trial, prohibit students from getting in trouble from an Honor Code violation if their professor said it was allowed, and more clearly inform students of their role in a hearing when they are being informed.
The University initially rejected the first three, accepting the plank that witnesses to a hearing should not receive an email identical to the ones received by a student suspected.
Yet after a University process, the first and second proposals are now Honor Committee policy, along with other changes.
Dina Kuttab ’21, who led the Honor Committee as the reforms unfolded, recalled what followed the referendum..
“When those [2017 amendments] didn't go into effect, the administration put together a committee of students and faculty to say, okay, those reforms didn’t go into effect, but what can we do like what reforms can we implement that? Keep the spirit of like the student led reforms, while also like, being something that you can actually operationalize? And that works within the system,” Kuttab said
It ended up being a two-year process involving four report-producing committees, some of which were entirely faculty and some of which involved students, culminating with a Reconciliation Committee to finalize what changes to implement.
Since the release of the report, the Honor Committee has changed in significant ways. Prior to 2019, the standard penalty that the Honor Committee imposed on almost every student found responsible for a serious act of plagiarism was a one-year suspension. Now, that suspension is reduced to one semester.
At the same time, multiple Honor Committee chairs who spoke with the ‘Prince’ referenced that the University does not typically allow students to graduate in the winter. Therefore, when a student is suspended for one semester, they often need to take off an additional semester as a leave of absence. Current Honor Committee Chair Matthew Wilson ’24 highlighted this gap as a problem that should be sorted out.
According to Shapiro, the Committee has also adapted to the referenda and become more lenient in its sentences and now is permitted to use more discretion to ensure that its punishments reflect the details of the case. In order to ensure fairness, Shapiro said, the Committee has begun using a precedent system, citing past cases to when considering future punishments.
Another significant change to the Committee that was recommended by multiple reports is the elimination of character witnesses. Character witnesses would testify to the good character of the accused student before the change. The reasoning behind the change, according to Shapiro, is that the Committee assumes good character, rendering the witness redundant and a requirement that unnecessarily requires the accused to bring another person into their disciplinary process. The committee, as the referendum suggests, also no longer holds a hearing on a single report.
The only referendum policy that was not officially implemented in any form is that if the professor of the class where the incident takes place doesn’t want disciplinary action, there should be no action. While former chairs stated that this policy was not legally feasible, Shapiro told the ‘Prince’ that in practice, “[the Committee] would certainly take into consideration” the faculty member’s perspective when adjudicating a case.
Most students view the Honor Committee as a stand-in for the University’s disciplinary process at large: the Honor Committee, which dominates campus conversation around discipline and is a feature of freshman orientation. Before enrolling in classes at the University, students must sign the honor pledge.
However, the scope of the Honor Committee pales in comparison to the COD, which is not student led.
The members of the Honor Committee who spoke to the ‘Prince’ repeatedly emphasized that the administration and faculty have far more power than students in the disciplinary process, both through the COD and their veto power on any action taken by the Honor Committee.
In an interview with the ‘Prince,’ former chair of the Honor Committee Alston Carson ’22 said, “Obviously, it’s student run, I was literally the head of it, but I would say that for anyone who’s not on the committee, it would be really surprising to find out how much control is not actually possessed by the students.”

All cases of cheating during in-person examinations are under the purview of the Honor Committee, but every other violation of the Honor Code — essays, term papers, laboratory reports, and take-home examinations — in addition to non-academic violations of Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities, falls under the jurisdiction of the COD, which is comprised of 17 individuals, six of whom are students. On the other hand, the Honor Committee is entirely students.
“It’s an important talking point for the school that there’s a student-led honor committee, but what’s not really fully understood is that the Committee on Discipline, which is faculty led, has significantly more cases than the Honor Committee,” Carson continued.
In the 2021–2022 school year, the COD found 1,023 students responsible for disciplinary infractions, 50 of which were related to academics. The Honor Committee, which only releases statistics in five-year aggregates, found an average of 14 people responsible for violations of the Honor Code every year between 2017 and 2022. Throughout this time period, the Honor Committee only found the student responsible in 18 percent of cases referred to them. Of students whose cases made it to a hearing before the Honor Committee, 52 percent were found responsible.
There have been some changes to the COD. Most recently, peer representatives, who could assist students in Honor Code cases, can now assist students in COD cases. Yet compared to the referendum, the focus on the COD has not been equal.
“If the Honor Committee didn’t exist, that means all of the Honor Committees’ current cases would fall under the jurisdiction of the Committee on Discipline,” Wilson told the ‘Prince’
“The Committee on Discipline,” Wilson noted, “seems to get very little attention compared to the Honor Committee.”
Julian Hartman-Sigall is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.During the 2021-2022 school year, the Committee on Discipline (COD) heard 28 cases that resulted in a student’s separation from campus. Now, the COD is introducing a discipline sanction that may keep some suspended students on campus.
The COD implemented the “suspension (not served)” sanction as a consequence for violations where separation from the University may not be warranted. The new sanction falls between disciplinary probation and a one-semester suspension from campus in terms of severity, Deputy Dean of Undergraduate Students Joyce Chen explained in an email to The Daily Princetonian.
On Friday, the Honor Committee will vote on whether to implement the new sanction for Honor Code violations. While the COD investigates and rules on violations regarding academic work that takes place out of class and “serious non-academic misconduct,” the Honor Committee hears cases on potential academic misconduct during in-class examinations.
Between Fall 2017 and Spring 2022, the Honor Committee adjudicated 76 cases. During the 2021–22 academic year, the COD oversaw 1,072 cases.
Chair of the Honor Committee Caroline Schuckel ’25 told the ‘Prince’ that members of the committee were receptive at a preliminary meeting where the amendment was discussed.
“I think everyone on the committee fortunately aligns in the view that separating people from school, community, friends is not productive and is not something that people want to do,” Schuckel said.
If the Honor Committee votes to implement the suspension (not served) sanction, the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) will have the final vote on the amendment to the Honor Code at their meeting on Sunday.
Chen told the ‘Prince’ that she discussed the sanction during USG Ad-Hoc Committee meetings, as well as with several other peer institutions.
“From my conversations with the ad-hoc committee as well as other students over the years, it is my understanding that expanding the available sanctions to include suspension (not served) is appealing to students as well,” she said.
The idea was raised again at a quarterly meeting between members of the Honor Committee, University deans, and the Office of the General Counsel for the University. In the past, attendees also discussed the number of classrooms where exams take place that do not have clocks, leading students to check their phones to see how much longer they have to complete the exam.
Chen wrote that, if a student receives a suspension with or without separation from campus, the committees will consider whether their separation is “warranted.”
“As the facts of each case will differ, the disciplinary body will look at various factors, including the nature and seriousness of the violation, the nature and/or seriousness of any prior violation(s), or other circumstances that the body finds sufficient to permit suspension (not served),” she continued.
Schuckel hopes that the sanction, if added, will carry the weight of suspension without requiring the student to leave the University and move the Honor Committee in a “kinder” direction.
“I have had a hard time, in adjudication, with there being a lack of gray area between probation and suspension,” Schuckel said. “Those are pretty far apart penalties,” she added, expressing that the concept of suspension (not served) “always seemed like a very far away possibility.”
Like the traditional suspension, the new sanction would appear on a student’s transcript and their disciplinary record, which the University would release to a third party — like a medical school — if authorized by the student.
While Schuckel acknowledged the concern of some members of the Honor Committee that the sanction could be used in place of probation, she believes that cases would typically be “downgraded” to suspension (not served) instead of being “moved up from a probation.”
On Friday, the Honor Committee will also vote on an amendment to increase the size of the committee from 15 to 18 members in order to make scheduling easier and accommodate growing class sizes.
“We see this as appropriate,” Shuckel said. “I think as the University wants to grow class sizes, the reasonable inference would be that case number and case load could grow as well.”
Correction: A previous version of this article stated the Committee on Discipline (COD) heard 28 cases that resulted in a student’s separation from campus in 2023. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error.
Isabel Yip is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Everybody loves a secret space. From rumors of a shrine to Danny DeVito hidden behind laundry machines in Little Hall to whispers of a network of underground tunnels darting across campus, there's a certain allure about little known spaces on campus.
While some of these places are somewhat mythological, others are real, if you know where to look.
So today, the Daybreak team got a tour of these tunnels to find out how they're used, where they go, and why they exist in the first place. Listen in.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.This content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
On Sept. 16, the administration released a statement announcing that a member of the first-year class was finally rescued from the wilderness of southern New York.
The identity of this individual, as confirmed by the administration, is Mark McCalister ’76. Currently 69 years old, McCalister claims he has been searching the forest of Harriman State Park for his first-year Outdoor Action (OA) group for the past 51 years.
According to members of ‘Bear With Me,’ the hiking club responsible for rescuing McCalister, he requested to be brought back to campus so he could clean up and finish his Orientation events. “He said he was looking forward to the Step Sing and having sex with every member of his ‘zee group.’ I’m not quite sure what that means,” said Frederick Boothe, the leader of the group.
“When we found him, he was completely naked, except for a bandana he had fashioned out of an excrement-stained ‘NIXON’S THE ONE’ t-shirt,” said Amy Castillo, a member of ‘Bear With Me.’ “He was curled up into a ball within a nest made of his own hair, possibly of armpit origin.”
In an interview with the Daily PrintsAnything, McCalister refused to speak to any female reporters, stating that he didn’t believe any of them attended Princeton or knew how to read.
During the interview, McCalister repeatedly yelled at reporters to find his high school girlfriend “Rachel something” who has red hair and “the meatiest calves I’ve ever laid eyes on.”
After returning to society and learning to use technology, McCalister’s first tweet read, “I can’t believe RFK is running for president again. I guess he recovered from that assassination attempt?”
While the administration is boasting a successful end to a decades-long search, local police records suggest that no search was ever conducted nor was a missing person ever reported.
According to the University’s enrollment archives, it appears that McCalister was stricken from the first-year class list in early September of 1972, following the return of OA groups to campus. Foul play is suspected.
Sophia Varughese ’26 is an associate Humor editor. Her therapist describes her as ‘clinically bangable’.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.Editor's Note: This piece has been updated with comment from University administrators.
As the sun set over Cannon Green on Oct. 27, around 1,000 University community members showed up to participate in a "Community Gathering" to close the University’s inaugural Community Care Day, which invited “the entire campus community to focus on rejuvenation, reflection, and camaraderie,” as described in an email by the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Students Ian Deas sent on Oct. 25. While more than 2,000 students, faculty, and staff attended the event throughout the day, classes were still held that day, leading to some conflicts with programming.
The day’s schedule, starting at 8 a.m. and ending at 6:30 p.m., included stations for free food and drinks, as well as yoga, hiking, a rock climbing wall, and watercolors, among other activities. From 5 to 6:30 p.m., undergrads, graduate students, and faculty and President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 mingled at the Community Gathering on Cannon Green. Anne Laurita is the director of health promotion and prevention at University Health Services (UHS), which helped organize the event. She told The Daily Princetonian that the day was created “for our campus community to come together in cultivating an environment at Princeton that supports mental health,” adding that many events were planned in collaboration with students.
In an email to the 'Prince,' Vice President for Campus Life Rochelle Calhoun said that the idea for the event came last spring when "both undergraduate and graduate students reached out to me to express their concerns about the collective sense of loss the community was feeling." The event took seven months to plan.
"The students shared that they wanted more space and time to focus on wellbeing and mental health as well as find ways for the community to come together," she said.
"Community Care Day, in and of itself, was not designed to address the critically important issue of mental health.  However, as a reminder that we all need to find ways to mitigate against stress, be in supportive community and find joy in our day, Community Care Day lifts up this awareness, celebrates our supportive community and encourages self-care. These all positive mental health practices," Calhoun said.
“It was great seeing my friends outside in the beautiful fall foliage,” Daniel Wang ’26 told the ‘Prince.’ “I haven’t seen this many people together outdoors in a while, and it definitely impressed a sense of community.”
Elisa Gonzalez ’27 attended the free coffee giveaway at Campus Club with her Spanish class.
“It was nice because we got to talk outside of class and connect. I also went to decorate cupcakes at Frist, and that was nice as well,” she said. “I think this day was a good thing. It’s just a nice little reminder to take a break sometimes.”
“Obviously it’s not a single day that is going to [permanently] change anything, but I was happy to see that this is something that is being talked about and that the University put thought into the quality and diversity of the activities that were offered,” Thiago Varella GS said.
Judy Jarvis, executive director for the office of campus engagement, which helped organize the event, wrote in a statement to the 'Prince' that "I spoke with a number of students and staff members throughout the day, and many shared how appreciative they were that the day didn’t ask much of them."
"Our working group wanted to create a schedule that offered a wide range of rejuvenating activities, because rejuvenation means different things to different people," she said.
Other students expressed their interest in Community Care Day activities, but had trouble attending due to busy class schedules, office hours, and assignments due by Friday evening.
“I think the whole principle of the day — prioritizing mental health and wellbeing over everything else — is undermined by not canceling classes. I couldn’t attend most of the events because I had classes all day,” said Laurie Drayton ’26 in an interview with the ‘Prince.’
Jarvis acknowledged that "organizing a truly campus-wide event that includes undergraduate students, graduate students, faculty, and staff, is complex because wellbeing and rejuvenation means different things to different people."
Other feedback concerned unclear communication from the University. Gonzalez told the ‘Prince’ that “it was hard keeping track of everything that was going on because the informational email was a little last minute.”
Community Care Day contributes to a broader campus effort in the past two years to support mental health and student wellbeing at Princeton. Recognition of this issue increased in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. Organizers of the event also mentioned the deaths by suicide of three students and one staff member in the past two years.
In September 2022, a working group formed between the University Student Government (USG), the Office of Campus Life, and UHS published a report evaluating existing mental health resources on campus. The report made a series of recommendations, including 24/7 on-demand Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS), funding for transportation to off-campus mental health services, and residential college staff training.
Laurita explained the need for the broad variety of mental health support services and programs.
“At Princeton, over the past several years, we have seen consistent increases in service utilization at [UHS’s] Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS),” she said. “This pattern aligns closely with national trends, with young adults’ self-reported mental health concerns and utilization of clinical services for these concerns on the rise.”
“The spirit of this inaugural Community Care Day contributes to a broader campus climate around bolstering community well-being. It is my hope that the event served both as one moment in time for meaningful connection and to complement ongoing, campus-wide initiatives that promote student well-being at individual, group, and systems levels,” she added.
Community Care Day came together as a collaboration between the Office of the Vice President for Campus Life, Campus Club, Campus Recreation, the Graduate School, the Graduate Student Government, Health Promotion and Prevention Services, Office of Human Resources, Office of Dean of Undergraduate Students, the Office of Campus Engagement, Outdoor Action, USG, and the Class of 1961 Foundation.
Meghana Veldhuis is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Rebecca Cunningham is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.When the first-year class descends upon Princeton’s campus each fall, they are ready to begin the next chapter of their lives. Their first steps include attending events with hundreds of new faces, completing dozens of orientation sessions, and embarking upon orientation trips. These experiences help students acclimate to the Princeton community, but after orientation programming, first-years are faced with an entirely new campus landscape: in their absence, nearly 4,000 sophomore, junior, and seniors have moved back onto campus. Many students find this new landscape overwhelming; yet for some, the transition seems less drastic, thanks to prior connections to upperclassmen, which often resulted from privileged upbringings. To provide a more even playing field for all students, the University should create opportunities for all first-year students to build comparable connections with upperclassmen.
Some first-years are fortunate enough to feel comfortable in this new environment full of intimidating, intelligent, well-adjusted students.Their teammates, family friends — who are often known through alumni connections —, or former classmates from elite private schools that send a disproportionate amount of graduates to Princeton are here to provide them a safe-haven in this new place. Students who are not fortunate enough to have access to these connections, or to gain admission to a highly selective club in the first few weeks of the semester, are left to figure out Princeton for themselves.
The University is significantly invested in helping freshman bond on their orientation trips. Outdoor Action leaders must complete five “full-day” training workshops, with eleven additional hours of training, along with two weeks of camping and preparation before the first-year class moves onto campus. This indicates their commitment to creating an intentionally supportive environment. Similarly, the university coordinates with community organizations and lodging retreats to perfect the Community Action experience. Both of these organizations and the dozens of other orientation activities succeed at making a class feel more like a community. The administration seems to be relatively successful in facilitating bonds between students of the same year: Why can’t they do this between freshman and upperclassmen?
There are numerous reasons why having connections with older students on campus is beneficial for first-years. Upperclassmen can provide advice on a variety of issues including classes, co-curriculars, and social life. Students who occupy roles specifically oriented to helping freshmen, such as Residential College Advisors and Peer Academic Advisors, are useful and necessary, but do not replace the role of a friend: someone you can connect with on a casual and personal level. Older students hold wisdom and knowledge which they impart onto younger friends. They know how to behave around which professors, which clubs to join and which are too time consuming, how to get into certain exclusive clubs and co-curricular activities. As a first-year, I can attest to our desperate need for advice on these fronts.
Additionally, upperclassmen can serve as a tie into Princeton nightlife, holding the keys to eating clubs in the form of passes. Nearly 50% of upperclassmen are members of a bicker club — which tend to require list spots or passes to attend parties — and an additional 26% are in non-bicker clubs. As the only formalized party space on-campus, these organizations are campus life powerhouses. Yet what happens in these clubs is much more than partying — it’s networking. While the University may be apprehensive to promote first-year access to drinking circles, it is undeniable that they do have an interest in helping all first-years access the opportunities pipeline that they can be so proud of post-graduation.
Seeing as the University puts so much time and effort into integrating first-years into social life and “promoting belonging,” it seems strange that there is no effort to help first-years — who are truly new to our campus community — engage in such a central part of social life. Our University is a powerhouse for networking and forging relationships that become beneficial later in life. Princeton alumni notoriously look out for each other. Even vaguely knowing alumni in a certain field or having a name you can drop when needed can be hugely beneficial for networking after graduation. Students who come to school with a more privileged background have an advantage in this regard. If Princeton truly wants to promote equity, they must give all underclassmen the opportunity to benefit from these opportunities.
Obviously the University cannot dictate who students befriend, interact with, or help out. However, based on the general successes of orientation, the University seems to be both fairly good at and committed to, such as putting first-year students in positions where they have an opportunity to connect with people who are like them and creating lasting friendships. This prowess should be applied to creating inter-grade friendships as well. The new policy regarding allowing students of all class years to live in residential colleges is an excellent opportunity for intergenerational friendships to form. Residential colleges frequently host events for students that involve giving away food or gear as incentives for participation. Community Living Advisors are responsible for creating these spaces for upperclassmen, while Residential College Advisors do so for first-years. Making these events open to all grades, instead of separated by freshman and upperclassmen, would provide an opportunity for younger students to familiarize themselves with the upperclassmen who they live with/around.
Yet casual mingling is not enough to form a community — something Princeton appears to know, based on its orientation practices. Holding structured introductory events within Residential Colleges, based around common interests or shared struggles, for inhabitants of all grades would facilitate better community within living spaces. This would create opportunities for new and current students to co-exist and get to know each other outside of the intensely competitive and intimidating club atmosphere. Giving students who did not enter Princeton as members of the “elite” the opportunity to interact with older students is a part of creating equality on our campus.
Being a new person in a new place comes with lots of social adjustment, and as newly-minted young adults, it is important for first-years to have to bear some responsibility in integrating themselves into the community and finding their place. However, in the name of equity, the university should make efforts to level the playing field, when some first-years clearly walk onto campus with a leg up.
Ava Johnson is a first-year columnist from Washington, D.C. She can be reached by email at aj9432@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Every Princetonian knows that the first few weeks of first-year orientation are defined by two events: Core events and First Year Residential Experience (FYRE) events. Through a densely packed schedule of lectures, discussion series, and crash course seminars, these events are intended to rapidly acquaint first-year students with the culture and resources of Princeton’s residential communities.
Rather than building connections, the inflexible nature of Core and FYRE Events limits opportunities for frosh to build community organically. Princeton should embrace a more loosely regulated orientation programming structure to prioritize first-year engagement.
Orientation events are common requisites of the university experience. Columbia, for example, hosts New Student Orientation Program (NSOP) events during frosh orientation. First-Year Counselor Program (FroCo) Meetings are a nightly staple of Yale’s orientation programming. Yet, Princeton’s Core and FYRE Events are distinct in their quantity, style, and size, making it difficult for first-years to truly engage with their classmates.
One of the most glaring faults of Core and FYRE’s current program is the sheer quantity of scheduled events. Unlike universities like Harvard, which has four mandatory events over an eight-day period, there are well over thirty mandatory Core and FYRE Events in Princeton’s eleven day period. Over the course of the semester, the total sum of FYRE events surpasses forty, and on certain orientation days, there can be as many as five events per day.
At its peak, the overwhelming volume of these events nearly eliminates any downtime that frosh might have otherwise had on campus. Consequently, the lack of free time makes it difficult for first-years to explore campus or independently forge connections among their new peers.
The deeply structured style of Core and FYRE Events also prevents us from engaging with other frosh and the broader campus culture in more informal settings. Traditionally, these events tend to be structured in the style of lectures, where students listen to Princeton faculty and upperclassmen speak about their experiences instead of actively interacting with their peers.
Although students absorb factual information about campus culture, their learning experience is inherently limited by the lack of opportunities for student participation. Ironically, even as they learn about residential life with other first-years, they are unable to truly engage with those them. Arguably, Princeton’s small group experiences — Outdoor Action, Community Action, Dialogue and Difference in Action — do provide a window for more informal connection-building. However, as this only comprises three out of the total 11 days, these efforts are simply not enough.
If Princeton hopes to decrease the burden on the student body and provide opportunities for student-to-student engagement, it should reduce the intensity of event sessions. Consider Yale, for example. Orientation schedules at Yale bear several similarities to Princeton’s programming. For instance, Yale holds 25 mandatory events in an 11-day period whereas Princeton holds around 30 in the same interval. Yet Yale’s orientation schedule feels distinctly less exhaustive due how the University’s orientation programming is more effectively spread out.
Broken down, Yale’s mandatory programming averages out to three events per day, in comparison to Princeton’s average of four events. Furthermore, whereas most of Princeton’s events consist of hour-long lectures, Yale’s mandatory events include brief informal communication workshops and debrief-centered FroCo Meetings. Thus, in scheduling less intensive events, Yale effectively enables students to have more time to build stronger connections.
Furthermore, the present relationship between these orientation events and zee groups confines students to one prescribed group, instead of encouraging them to meet new people organically. Because zee groups are required to attend all Core and FYRE events together, and these events consume a significant amount of time, first-years spend an outsized amount of their time with a small, predetermined group. Because frosh are forced to spend long periods of time with their zee group, they are prevented from fully enjoying one of the greatest perks of college — engaging with the diversity of the college community. Plus, first-years who don’t feel close to their zee group may further face barriers in forming friendships because of how much of their time is spent exclusively with these groups.
There is a clear logic in establishing Core and FYRE as mandatory events. They orient first-years to critical resources and offerings at Princeton for student life, academics, and mental health. Still, even as Princeton seeks to facilitate the transition of its frosh to college life, it is equally important, if not more so, to build the community of each incoming class — at present, Core and FYRE Events directly inhibit this.
To address this issue, Princeton should restructure orientation programming to prioritize building frosh peer-to-peer engagement. In reducing the quantity of academic programming in favor of optional academic panels, Princeton could provide more time for first-years to socialize in organic settings. Additionally, by transitioning Princeton’s orientation programs from lecture-style to more loosely regulated social events, the University would be able to better facilitate more personal conversations, and by extension closer connections, among the frosh class. Finally, rather than mandating that students attend events solely with their zee group, Princeton should expand opportunities for students to engage with the student body more generally.
My personal favorite frosh orientation event, like many others’, was the Ice Cream Social. Why? Because the Ice Cream Social was the antithesis of Core and FYRE Events: optional, loosely regulated, and open to the entire class. In the spirit of the Ice Cream Social, the University should create more opportunities for first-years to connect with each other and relieve the burden of non-stop mandatory events.
Cathleen Balid is a first-year from Queens, N.Y. She can be reached at cb4649@princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.If you’ve read anything about activism at Princeton, you’ve probably heard the prevailing narrative that Princeton students are apathetic towards politics, with only a few committed students caring enough to speak up. This notion has become so accepted that it’s been expressed in this publication not only as opinion but even as news.
Until recently, I also believed this narrative.
But to current Princetonians and the incoming Class of 2029, I say: It’s not that we don’t care; rather, we feel we have no power to effect change. In short, our problem is defeatism, not apathy. And to fix it, we need your help.
Princeton students aren’t apathetic about politics. Nearly 95 percent of the Class of 2024 said they would vote in last year’s presidential election. Even when it comes to campus politics, the majority of Princeton students care: Last year’s campus elections saw a 53 percent student turnout.
So why do only tiny percentages of Princeton students show up to most protests? My colleague Frances Brogan offered some compelling explanations, but her argument that campus activism has become an identity and demands ideological purity doesn’t completely elucidate the way Princeton students approach activism.
A different reason for our absence is that Princeton students feel a collective sense of defeatism. Nearly every student I talk to is concerned about the Trump administration cutting funding and threatening international students. But almost everyone I asked about attending the April 5 protest against these threats expressed the same sentiment: It’s pointless to protest because protesting will never accomplish anything.
But this sentiment is flat-out wrong.
My appeals have thus far fallen on deaf ears among current Princeton students, and so I appeal to the Class of 2029 as well: When you arrive on campus, if you care about politics as so many Princeton students do, get involved in activism — because activism can work. And here’s how.
As students, we have access to three types of activism: moral action, mass action, and disruptive action. Past student movements have used these strategies to accomplish big things, on a national scale.
The first type of protest, moral action, is the kind intended to generate moral outrage amongst the public. Small groups of students have been able to accomplish this throughout history: The Black students who sat at a Greensboro lunch counter to protest racial segregation and refused to leave are an excellent example, as is Greta Thunberg’s school strike for climate. The goal of this kind of protest is to cause the public to wake up to a problem — and only works if you can publicize it.
The second type is mass nonviolent action, which intends to frighten leaders with the sheer number of people involved. That happened in 1976 in Soweto, South Africa, when 20,000 students protested against being taught in Afrikaans and rejuvenated the anti-apartheid movement in the country. It had already happened in the U.S. six years earlier, when four million students protested the Vietnam War.
And mass protest works. Harvard University professors Erica Chenoweth and Kenneth Wallach have shown that any movement that includes 3.5 percent of a population actively engaging in civil disobedience and protest is almost always successful in achieving its aims. To win, that can’t be in the form of one-off mobilization like a “national day of action,” but by persistent disobedience where large swaths of the population get involved and stay involved.
This is where college students have an advantage. We number 19 million across America, comprising well over five percent of the population. That’s why students have always been the catalysts for change. The structure for organizing mass nonviolent resistance — our campuses — is gifted to us, and the numbers are there. We should make use of our advantages to inspire national action.
But it’s at this point that modern student activists, myself included, have often gone wrong. The first thing we’ve gotten wrong is that we spend too much time mobilizing and not enough time organizing. The difference is simple: Mobilizing people is getting them to attend a protest. Organizing is bringing those people into the room to plan it. With more committed members in our activist organizations, we could accomplish bigger things and sustain a movement that encompasses the vast majority of students, rather than sparking their mobilization only in exceptional moments.
The other thing we’ve done wrong is that we don’t engage enough in the third type of protest, disruptive action. While disruptive action should be rare, disrupting normal proceedings is often the only way to force power holders to listen to your demands. It also often inspires others to join you.
But we hesitate to escalate to such significant disruption because of the elevated risk associated with it, even though effective disruption doesn’t always have to be outside the rules or the law. The efforts to disrupt the Naftali Bennett event on Monday are a recent example, and the large protest they inspired is an overdue reminder of the mobilizing power of good disruption.
Sunrise Princeton, the group I organize with, is building a coalition to demand that Princeton protects its people and research from the Trump administration. Others are working for justice in Palestine, workers’ rights, and more. To accomplish anything at all, though, we must have the people power to do it.
The defeatist mindset that saturates this campus is drowning our activism before it gets a chance to swim. But the Class of 2029 can help change that. If you were admitted to Princeton this year and believe, as many of us do, in the power of activism to effect social change, then you should choose Princeton so we can advance these goals together.
The only way we can defeat defeatism is with a strong conviction in our ability to win and a credible plan to do so. Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work, and with a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
Isaac Barsoum ’28 is a first-year intended Politics major from Charlotte, N.C., and a co-coordinator of Sunrise Princeton. He believes in the power of activism to effect positive change. His column, “A Princeton for All,” runs every other Thursday. You can read his column here. You can reach him at itbarsoum[at]princeton.edu.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.
I believe preservation of capital and significant liquidity should be Princeton’s guiding principle. Most importantly, there should be greater light shone on the endowment and how it is invested.As the new semester begins, TigerTransit, which connects University buildings, parking, and public transit, has implemented route and schedule changes that ensure more frequent and direct late-night service, more service on weekends, and better access for students living in residential colleges furthest from classrooms and athletic facilities.
TigerTransit’s design is meant to provide quick transportation between major locations with a walking distance of over 10 minutes, such as the commute from Forbes College to the E-Quad or Poe Field to Witherspoon. During the day on weekdays, four routes are in operation.
While locations remain similar to the 2023 routes, the updated Route 1 will make all-day stops at Friend Center on the way to Stadium Drive Garage, and Route 4 will connect the Meadows Neighborhood to Princeton Junction via Princeton Station. The Fisher Hall stop has also been moved closer to Washington Road.
Additional updates were also made to the night route, where one circulating bus has been replaced by two evening routes that now operate daily from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. The weekend routes, which transport students between housing complexes, campus destinations, and local shopping centers, will now have shopping stops “less than 3 minutes” from Wegmans, Whole Foods, and Trader Joe’s.
These changes are part of the annual updates that the University’s Transportation and Parking Services (TPS) implements before each academic year. Community members are able to give feedback on TigerTransit year-round through the “Tell us how TigerTransit is doing” page on the TPS website. This year, changes have been made based on feedback from over 300 survey responses from students, faculty and staff.
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ TPS wrote that “since 2022, TPS, Facilities, and other University partners have conducted campus-wide intercept surveys, including tabling during Frist late meal” and stopping people on campus.
The TPS website notes that “not every request or suggestion from the community could be accommodated in this year’s service plan,” and that the needs of the University community will continue to influence future improvements.
Since the current TigerTransit network launch about three weeks ago, TPS documents that services have seen about 3,500 boardings per day on weekdays and 1,100 boardings per day on weekends. During the first week of September, two of the routes that were updated were among those with the highest average daily boardings, with 1,118 riders on Route 4 and 885 riders on Route 1.
A complete guide to TigerTransit routes and updates can be found on the TPS website.
Michelle Miao is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.With 347 scheduled trips each weekday, the TigerTransit bus network serves as a critical transportation service for students, faculty, staff, and local residents across Princeton, West Windsor, and Plainsboro. TigerTransit’s stops include both campus buildings, like the Friend Center and Firestone Library, and local destinations, such as the Princeton Medical Center and Palmer Square. In some cases, it provides the only options for fixed-route public transportation to these destinations.
Yet with six lines, 27 destinations, and thousands of bus trips each week, many Princeton students — especially undergraduates — are unfamiliar with TigerTransit’s free-to-ride bus service.
“I think most students [know] it exists, but most are unaware of its scheduling and routes,” George Tidmore ’26 told The Daily Princetonian.
In light of the new restrictions on personal electric vehicles, TigerTransit serves as one of a diminished number of ways to get around campus. The ‘Prince’ broke down TigerTransit’s routes and schedules and identified key trips of interest to undergraduate students to enable them to get around campus quicker.
The TigerTransit service consists of six routes, five of which operate on weekdays. For the purposes of this analysis, we excluded the Weekend Shopper as it is heavily used by undergraduates relative to other routes and does not operate during the academic week.
Some students believe that TigerTransit’s route network does not serve undergraduate students well. “The system seems more oriented towards graduate student housing locations,” said Tidmore, a Forbes resident. Tidmore remarked that he had never used the TigerTransit system during his time at Princeton.
“The routes are sufficient [and] cover most parts of campus,” said Helena Ploss ’26. “I do wish they had one going through campus [up and down Elm Drive] that I would definitely take if I didn’t have a bike.”
“There are no plans for TigerTransit to operate on Elm Drive in the near future,” Director of Transportation and Parking Services Charles Tennyson told the ‘Prince,’ though he did mention that the University is taking steps to restrict construction vehicles operating on Elm Drive for the benefit of pedestrians and bikers.
TigerTransit is free at the point of use for all individuals. Riders must present a valid Princeton University ID to travel between Princeton Junction and campus on Route 4, but all other trips are free for use by the public.
Most TigerTransit service is geared towards moving graduate students, faculty, and staff from transportation hubs and parking facilities to campus.
“What’s difficult is that, given where most undergraduate students live, students would still need to travel to a pickup spot,” Tidmore said.
Tennyson responded to the lack of service to undergraduate dorms by stating that “there are many stops on most TigerTransit routes that are located less than five minutes walking from undergraduate residences and other popular destinations adjacent to Elm Drive.” We looked at three of these stops for our analysis.
Princeton Station: TigerTransit Routes 4, 5, and the Weekend Shopper stop outside Wawa in the Princeton Railroad Station bus loop. This stop is adjacent to Forbes College and is a short walk from the halls in the rear of Whitman College.
Admissions Information Center: Routes 1, 4, 5, and the Weekend Shopper stop outside the Admissions Information Center inside the U-Store in both north and south directions. This stop is convenient for students in Mathey or Rockefeller Colleges, as well as those living in Upperclass halls in the West Campus Area (Lockhart, Foulke, Laughlin, etc.)
Goheen Walk at Washington: All routes but the Weekend Shopper provide service at the intersection of Goheen Walk and Washington Road near Fine and McDonnell Halls, though Route 5 only provides service in the southbound direction, taking riders toward Yeh. This stop is especially close to Scully Hall but is convenient for all halls in the Poe Field area, including New College West, Butler, and Yeh Colleges.
We compared TigerTransit schedules to the walking times provided by Google Maps to see which trips are better accomplished by TigerTransit than walking alone. Our analysis is dependent on buses arriving according to their scheduled times, meaning that these trip times may not be completely accurate if buses are delayed.
To Friend Center and the E-Quad: When traveling from Forbes, the Rockefeller/Mathey area, or the Poe Field area (Butler/New College West/Yeh), TigerTransit is usually faster than walking, though this varies depending on the origin point.
From the Poe Field area, boarding Route 2 eastbound at Goheen Walk (Fine/McDonnell Halls) and taking it to the Friend Center stop is an 11-minute trip, four minutes faster than walking.
From the Mathey/Rockefeller area, boarding Route 1 eastbound at the U-Store and exiting at the Friend Center takes nine minutes, saving five minutes compared to walking. Note that only eight buses departing from the U-Store every 30 minutes between 7:22 a.m. and 10:52 a.m. deviate from the normal route along Washington Road to service the Friend Center and the E-Quad.
From Forbes College, boarding Route 4 northbound at Princeton Station and transferring to Route 1 eastbound at Firestone Library before getting off at the Friend Center yields a total travel time of 21 minutes, just a hair faster than the 22-minute walking time Google Maps estimates. Note that this itinerary depends upon the same eight eastbound Route 1 trips that deviate to the Friend Center and E-Quad, meaning that only eight Route 4 trips departing Princeton Station every 30 minutes from 7:11 to 10:41 a.m. make this connection possible.
“It was significantly faster than walking,” Dawood Virk ’25 said about using TigerTransit to get to the Friend Center from Forbes. “I believe after freshman year they changed the routes to no longer include a direct transport from [Princeton Station] to the Friend Center. They should definitely consider reinstating that route.”
Indeed, all TigerTransit routes once served the Friend Center, according to a 2021 route map obtained by the ‘Prince’ using the Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine. Today, just Routes 2, 5, and the Weekend Shopper serve the Friend Center, with eight Route 1 trips serving it and no service from Routes 3 or 4.
To Firestone Library: Forbesians can shave a minute off their travel time to Firestone by boarding Route 4 northbound at Princeton station and getting off at the Firestone Library stop on Nassau Street. This trip, which can also be used to reach upper campus destinations like East Pyne, takes 13 minutes. Note that return trips to Forbes require departing from Palmer Square or McCosh Walk.
To Scudder Plaza, JRR, and Robertson: Once again, Forbesians can make their trip across campus a tad faster by using TigerTransit. When traveling to the Scudder Plaza area — the intersection of McCosh Walk and Washington Road near Robertson, McCosh, and Wooten Halls — riders can board Route 4 northbound from Princeton Station and exit the bus at the McCosh Walk/Washington Road stop. This trip takes 14 minutes, again a minute faster than walking alone.
Mathey, Rockefeller, and west campus upperclass students can also use Route 4 or Route 1 from the U-Store to Scudder Plaza, but this trip does not save time compared to walking.
To Graduate College: Those on the west side of campus, including Mathey and Rockefeller Colleges, can travel to Graduate College and its far-flung dining hall by boarding TigerTransit’s Route 1 westbound at the U-Store and exiting at the last stop on the route, Graduate College. This trip takes nine minutes in total, saving four minutes compared to walking.
Those in the Poe Field area can also use Route 1 westbound from Goheen Walk (Fine/McDonnell Halls) to travel to Graduate College, but this trip takes as long or longer than walking.
To 185 Nassau Street: Downcampus residents can save time when traveling to 185 Nassau Street (the old LCA) and destinations on the east side of Nassau, including Hoagie Haven and Ficus, by using TigerTransit. Riders can board Route 2 eastbound from Goheen Walk (Fine/McDonnell Halls) and get off at Nassau/Charlton Streets. This trip takes eight minutes, almost half of the walking time.
To the Witherspoon/Jackson Neighborhood: The Witherspoon-Jackson neighborhood is known for its rich history and restaurant establishments like Local Greek. Located a half mile north of Nassau and even further from downcampus makes it a trek for students to reach, however. For downcampus residents, boarding Route 3 northbound at Goheen Walk and taking it to its terminus at Merwick takes 19 minutes, compared to 25 minutes of walking.
TigerTransit Routes 1, 2, 3, and 4 operate only on weekdays, while Route 5 operates on both weekends and weekdays. Routes 1 through 4 begin service at roughly at 7:00 a.m., with the last Route 1 and 2 buses departing their terminals between 8:30 and 9:00 p.m., while the final Route 3 and 4 buses depart their terminals between 6:00 and 6:40 p.m.
Buses on Routes 1 and 2 run every 10 to 15 minutes in each direction most of the day. In the evening, Route 1 and 2 are supplanted by Route 5, the evening circulator, which runs every 30 minutes between 7:00 p.m. and midnight on weekdays and between 5:00 p.m. and midnight on weekends.
Buses on Route 3 operate every 30 minutes during service hours. Route 4 buses operate every 30 minutes between 7:00 and 8:00 a.m., 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., and after 6:00 p.m., every 15 minutes between 8:00 and 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 and 6:00 p.m.
TigerTransit buses operate on regular intervals ranging between 10 and 30 minutes. We looked at departures from three stops close to residential buildings during peak morning hours to make recalling TigerTransit schedules easier.
From Princeton Station near Forbes, northbound Route 4 buses towards academic buildings depart at :11, :26, :41, and :56 on the hour. For example, buses depart Princeton Station at 9:11 a.m., 9:26 a.m., 9:41 a.m., and 9:56 a.m. during the morning rush.
From Goheen Walk near Fine and McDonnell Halls, eastbound Route 2 buses towards the Friend Center, E-Quad, and Fisher Hall depart at times ending in :8 from 8:00 a.m. to noon.
“Bus schedules don’t seem to align with class times,” said Ploss, “so if I want to get up Washington for a class at the top of the hill I’m better off walking [or] biking.”
Indeed, many TigerTransit schedules line up poorly with class times. For example, eastbound Route 1 buses arrive at Goheen Walk near McDonnell and Fine at :44 and :02 on the hour — either too early or too late to be useful for classes that start on the hour.
TigerTransit feeds data to the TripShot app to provide riders with live information about bus schedules, locations, and delays. It would appear that Transportation and Parking Services no longer provides TigerTransit updates over X (commonly known as Twitter), as the @PrincetonTPS account has been inactive since October 2022.
While TigerTransit primarily operates around the periphery of campus, it also extends into West Windsor and Plainsboro Townships. Route 4 extends to Princeton Junction, meaning that it can be used as a fare-free alternative to the Princeton Shuttle, commonly known as the Dinky. The ticket price from New York Penn Station to Princeton Station is $17.75, but the price to Princeton Junction is $16.00. Using TigerTransit instead of the Dinky means that travelers can save $3.50 on a round trip to New York or Newark Liberty International Airport.
We used our previous data on the travel times between New York and Princeton and examined how using TigerTransit instead of the Dinky would affect travel times. On average, return trips from New York Penn Station to Princeton Station are lengthened by eight minutes when using Route 4 versus the Dinky. However, Route 4 extends past Princeton Station, providing direct service from Princeton Junction to the U-Store, Firestone Library, and Washington Road, meaning travelers may save time using Route 4 overall by shaving off walking time from Princeton Station.
TigerTransit does not provide direct service to athletic facilities like Jadwin Gym or Princeton Stadium. However, all routes stop at Goheen Walk, which is a six-minute walk from Jadwin, and Routes 1 and 4 service Stadium Drive Garage, which is a four-minute walk from Jadwin. TigerTransit may be used as a means to reach these destinations, which is especially notable in light of the University’s recent strengthened regulations on the use of e-scooters and e-bikes, which are frequently used by athletes to get across campus to Jadwin.
We examined the travel times from the Rockefeller/Mathey area, Forbes, and Palmer Square to destinations like Jadwin Gym and the Shea Rowing Center. Our analysis found that using TigerTransit offered no significant time savings compared to walking due to the relative distance of TigerTransit stops from athletic facilities and the convoluted route buses take around campus.
According to Tennyson, TigerTransit’s bus fleet will be all-electric by the end of 2023. He also noted that the buses whisk between 1,500 and 2,000 students, faculty, campus employees, and community members around the Princeton area every weekday.
By combing through its schedules, TigerTransit’s utility to undergraduate students can be revealed as a frequent shuttle around the periphery of campus.
Ryan Konarska is an associate Data editor and a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached at ryankonarska[at]princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Princeton has historically been a walking campus — students can make the longest trek on campus, from Forbes College to the E-Quad, in about 25 minutes.
Transportation transformation, however, may be on Princeton’s horizon.
Simultaneously, students have become more spread out on campus, with more students living in the far south of campus due to the opening of two new residential colleges in 2022, Yeh and New College West. In August, the University announced a ban on personal electric vehicles (PEVs), prohibiting electric scooters, bikes, hoverboards, and skateboards from being used within a designated zone during “peak hours” of 7:30 a.m. through 4 p.m. on weekdays.
As students grapple with transportation options, transit patterns have been changing for some time. Ridership on TigerTransit, the University’s free bus service, has increased by 60 percent from pre-pandemic levels and by over 50 percent from 2022, according to Director of Transportation and Parking Services Charles Tennyson. The growing interest in the transit service comes as TigerTransit brings 17 new battery electric buses to replace its former diesel fleet.
“We suspect that a combination of increased frequency, greater visibility and access, and reliability of bus service is likely driving the ridership increases,” Tennyson wrote in a statement to The Daily Princetonian. For example, the Goheen Walk Northbound stop on Washington Road, which is served by four TigerTransit routes, has jumped from being the 12th most used weekday stop to the fifth busiest. From here, riders can hop on any northbound bus to avoid walking up a steep path.
Tennyson also added that undergraduate transit use from residents at Butler, Yeh, and New College West could be contributing to the increase of rides.
TigerTransit runs six lines around campus and nearby towns. Two routes serve the graduate student residents of the Lakeside Apartments and the Graduate College, respectively, while the Weekend Shopper provides access to groceries and retail shopping on Route 1. Another route runs to Princeton Medical Center, the Forrestal Campus, and the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL).
However, TigerTransit has also been criticized for its limited utility, as its route network operates around the periphery of campus and mostly transports graduate students, faculty, and staff from parking facilities to campus. In September, Tennyson told the ‘Prince,’ “There are no plans for TigerTransit to operate on Elm Drive in the near future.”
TigerTransit previously operated using a fleet of 14 full-size diesel buses and five smaller buses. By implementing the electric buses, 500 metric tons of tailpipe emissions will be removed from the atmosphere annually.
“Our air is cleaner because of this project,” said University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 in an event inaugurating the new buses. However, 500 metric tons represent less than one percent of the carbon emitted by campus operations annually, according to Tennyson.
The all-electric fleet is also relatively unique for a public transit system. According to a University press release, Princeton is the first Ivy League school with exclusively emissions-free vehicles. In the same press release, Tennyson said that the University’s charging station was “one of the largest electric transit vehicle charging facilities in the country.”
According to Tennyson, there are plans to change TigerTransit routes and service patterns to accommodate the new Meadows Neighborhood development across Lake Carnegie in West Windsor Township, which is planned for completion in Spring 2024. These service changes will be announced in early January.
Recent and future changes to the TigerTransit system are part of a broader landscape of environmental efforts on campus — as geothermal energy construction projects are ongoing and the University works towards a goal of carbon neutrality by 2046 — as well as significant campus expansion. Against the backdrop of a rapidly changing campus, students can expect that transportation patterns may also experience shifts away from walking and scootering and towards alternative modes of movement.
TigerTransit users can share feedback on the service with the University through its “Tell us how TigerTransit is doing” feedback form.
Ryan Konarska is an associate Data editor and staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Louisa Gheorghita is a staff News writer and photographer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.
Last month, Princeton University announced a restriction on Personal Electric Vehicles (PEVs) during “peak hours,” defined as 7:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., throughout most of campus. However, this de facto “scooter ban” has been ignored by many and, walking around campus, it is apparent that scooter use is still rampant. While the University has restricted scooter use, it has yet to update the campus transport system that could serve as an alternative: TigerTransit. A Daily Princetonian analysis aptly described the University’s bus system as a “shuttle around the periphery of campus.” But the center of campus, not the periphery, is where students need to travel the most.
Campus has grown and significant portions of the undergraduate student body live far south of where most academic buildings are located. “Space” around campus has changed, and connections between these spaces are not pedestrian-friendly, especially with construction detours and paths. While the University has launched the new Princeton Campus Map app to provide directions, taking into account construction detours and other path changes, this app only provides directions; it cannot magically change the campus landscape to speed up student commutes.
In order to truly speed up student travel, the University should invest in the TigerTransit system to include destinations where all undergraduate students need to go. The current routes do not serve the daily needs of the undergraduate population. For example, the only current TigerTransit route that has a dedicated residential college stop is Route 5, which stops at Yeh College. Even then, Route 5 only operates in the evening.
TigerTransit does not currently provide service where and when undergrads need it most: the morning and evening rush times. The morning “rush” on campus in the minutes leading up to 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. lectures makes Elm Drive crowded with students rushing to class, some walking and many still scootering — despite the official restriction. To alleviate this problem, the University should run a TigerTransit bus route along Elm Drive in a continual loop, starting near Bloomberg Arch, picking up students from Whitman, New College West, Yeh, and Butler, and then shuttling them up campus to East Pyne and McCosh Hall. Even if this route saves just a few minutes for students, TigerTransit can become a resource that students can use, meeting them where they are and not being an out-of-the-way burden. This Elm Drive loop would also decrease the current prohibited scooter use as a quick and convenient bus service would provide an alternative method of transportation for students rushing to class.
TigerTransit also fails to address transport needs during the evening “rush” at the end of classes. This transfer is crucial for athletes, who, according to the 2023 Senior Survey, make up 88 percent of scooter users. Since afternoon classes end at 4:20 p.m. every day, many athletes struggle to be on time for their 4:30 p.m. practice. While 4:20 p.m. is after the scooter ban’s end at 4 p.m., athletes would not have the time to return to their dorms to pick-up their scooters; instead, many scooter to their class, before the ban’s expiration, to ensure a quick transit. It is nearly impossible to reach certain athletic facilities in time from the academic center of campus by walking, which necessitates scooters for transport. One men’s soccer team member told me that he “was only able to make [his] practice on time because of [his] scooter.” Additionally, a member of the men’s water polo team shared that many players who have a semi-torn labrum, a common hip injury, rely on their scooters to get to practice quickly.
A bus service linking the academic center of campus, like the intersection of Washington Road and McCosh Walk, directly with athletic facilities would alleviate this burden. As of now, TigerTransit offers no direct connection to athletic facilities. In addition, according to a ‘Prince’ analysis, TigerTransit’s current routers offer “travel times that are the same or longer than walking times to athletic facilities down campus.” A different dedicated route could help solve this problem.
TigerTransit expansion, however, has benefits for the entire undergraduate student body, not just athletes. The Elm Drive shuttle, for example, would become a vital connection throughout campus for students traveling to residential colleges, classes, or facilities like Dillon Gym. The creation of new shuttles is also much-needed because PEV safety is an issue; the University shared with the ‘Prince’ that there were 54 safety incidents involving PEVs in the 2022-23 academic year — and those were just the reported incidents.
However, TigerTransit expansion shouldn’t be the only change made to campus; it should be the first of many changes. A pedestrian-friendly, convenient, and accessible campus also requires the implementation of protected bike and scooter lanes separate from pedestrian traffic, as is currently being adopted in cities across the world en masse, including a significant program in New York City. Even while the University is making massive investments in construction, when asked about specific PEV and pedestrian safety plans, a spokesperson commented, “as a part of the campus plan, infrastructure to best support pedestrian and wheeled mobility on campus will be modernized to improve the overall experience for all mobility types.” They shared no specific plans to implement safe corridors for bikes and scooters.
So far, the University has failed to provide an adequate replacement to PEVs to address the transport needs of a growing campus. The “scooter ban” isn’t working because Princeton’s geography requires a fast way to travel around campus. The University’s choice to prohibit scooter use during their most needed hours necessitates a feasible alternative. If it were convenient and accessible for undergraduates, TigerTransit could serve as that transportation option. Thus, Princeton must expand the TigerTransit system where undergrads need it the most: between residential colleges and academic buildings with a central Elm Drive shuttle, as well as between more class locations and athletic practice facilities.
Preston Ferraiuolo is a sophomore from Brooklyn, N.Y., intending to major in the School of Public and International Affairs. He can be reached at prestonf@princeton.edu.The following content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
In the past month, the University introduced a new fleet of 17 electric TigerTransit buses as ridership has increased in the face of recent campus-wide ban on Personal Electric Vehicles (PEVs).
A Daily PrintsAnything investigation has found that these new buses are entirely powered by rats native to the Princeton area.  The Diesel Fleet section of the TigerTransit website writes, “Sustainable rat-powered energy is how we plan to do our part to end the climate crisis.”
“When I first saw the union contract, I thought we were being hired as electrical engineers,” said Angelica Crumbstop, one of the rats currently employed by the University.
According to the job listing on Indeed, the actual job title is “Electric Engine.” The job description reads, “We are seeking warm bodies to serve as full-time electric engines. Applicants should have the ability to create substantial friction by rubbing their body against others. Little to no predisposition to vertigo is a plus.”
A number of rats have expressed confusion and anguish at their job responsibilities. “You do understand that the only reason you have this technology is because they tricked a bunch of highly-trained electrical engineers to get inside a bus engine, right?” asked Harrison Nightingale, Ph.D., a prominent rat within the union. “You call this the American dream?! This is not why my grandparents emigrated to America in the galleys of a white-people ship.”
“While I’m grateful to finally get off unemployment, these conditions are pretty shocking,” said Larry Siu, a veteran rat on campus, as he took a long drag from a miniature Virginia Slim. “We’re being thrown around in there like a Wawa hoagie in a washing machine."
According to Dr. Nightingale, the union plans to go on strike for better conditions and benefits, such as dental insurance and weekly cremations for all those perishing on the job.
Unfortunately, this strike will not be implemented in the foreseeable future, for an unknown union member has reportedly spent the entirety of the strike fund on pay-per-view chinchilla porn.
“You have no idea how good you have it,” said Claudio Mueringa, a disturbingly disfigured mouse, as he quickly scampered out of the basement of the Princeton Neuroscience Institute. “Please tell my family I love them,” he yelled as an indignant graduate student dragged his near-lifeless body by the tail back into the building.
Sophia Varughese ’26 is an associate humor editor. She’d take ‘over’ on “over/under 3 rats Sophia’s made out with”. She can be reached at sv1456@princeton.edu.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.The following content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
It’s February and love is in the air, but unfortunately, as we all know, Princeton students have a tendency to stay holed up in their rooms studying. Luckily, for those who might be craving a chance to dance with romance, one student’s brilliant new app has the solution.
Introducing TigerTease, the only application that alerts you when that zee group baddie’s high school relationship has broken up. To learn more about the app’s features, we spoke with Deepa Insaichu, a senior in the Computer Science Department and member of the Residential College Advising program at Rockefeller College.
“Maybe you went home and found out that the ‘I go to Princeton’ card made you more of a ‘hell-no’ than the town’s hottest new gigolo. Maybe a certain someone went home and found out that their partner just didn’t suit their future in investment banking. Maybe you’ve had eyes on the one with long, luscious locks, fair skin, eyes shining beautifully like the sparkling sea … Either way, this is the app for you,” explained Insaichu.
TigerTease lets users search for potential partners, sorting through zee groups by residential college, gender, sexuality, and current relationship status. Once they find that special someone, users then have several options. If the candidate is currently in a relationship, users have the option to receive notifications if their relationship status changes.
If the candidate is single, users can instead opt to message via Instagram, email, or carrier pigeon. Premium subscribers can even request to have gifts delivered, including bouquets, chocolates, and Frist late meal sushi.
Several new features will also roll out in the coming weeks. As Insaichu explained, “New relationship status options will soon be available. One that I am particularly excited about is the ‘Rough Patch’ status. This will allow users to slide in at just the right time to show their crushes how they could really be treated right. Relationship statuses will be automatically monitored and updated in real-time as information becomes available.”
When asked how this data collection method worked, Insaichu declined to comment. Throughout the interview, their phone kept buzzing with Instagram notifications.
An independent investigation by The Daily PrintsAnything concluded that this feature is driven by Insaichu’s Instagram page, which follows every campus baddie the investigations team could account for.
The Daily PrintsAnything also got an exclusive hands-on demonstration of a new AI feature coming to the app. Users can practice “rizzing up shawties” as the feature description reads by placing themselves in practice conversations with a specially trained chatbot.
In the scenario we were shown, we were tasked with consoling a student who recently broke up with their partner of four years. Throughout the conversation, we were automatically prompted by certain lines at key points, such as “Where my hug at” upon initiating the conversation, and “I would never treat you that way” when listening about their old partner.
Insaichu will distribute the app to fellow RCAs for use in their zee groups, though all students may register for the app on both Apple and Android, with a full release planned this Friday.
Sawyer Dilks is a staff Humor writer and member of the Class of 2027. If there are any students going through a rough breakup and need someone to listen, he would like to remind them that there are resources available at sd5123[at]princeton.edu.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.As students returned to campus after winter break, many in undergraduate housing were met with unwelcome guests: rats and mice. Reports of infestations spread quickly, with students spotting rodents in dorm rooms, hallways, and common rooms.
Rodents have been a documented issue in upperclass housing for years, notably in buildings such as Brown Hall. However, multiple first-year students from both New College West (NCW) and Yeh College told The Daily Princetonian that they have seen rodents in their common rooms since before fall break, and the infestation issue has only gotten worse.
Yeh resident John Wallar ’25 told the ‘Prince’ that he returned to his dorm during Wintersession to find that he had a mouse under his bedside table. “I heard a little scurrying, and I was like, okay, something probably just shifted,” said Wallar. “And then it continued.”
After contacting the Public Safety (PSAFE) non-emergency number, Wallar was offered a bed in the infirmary or the option to stay in a friend’s room. “The next day, someone from Facilities … came and put two mouse traps,” said Wallar. “Since then, I’ve had no other encounters with the small furry critter.”
Another resident of Yeh College, Kai Harting ’28, informed the ‘Prince’ that there have been reports of mice on his floor since December. Once, Harting’s zee group resorted to catching a mouse by themselves in a cup before releasing it outside.
Lizzie Himmelfarb ’28, who is in the same zee group as Harting, said this mouse was one of two mice spotted in her room and one of many on her floor.
Facilities have since been contacted about the problem on Harting and Himmelfarb’s floor in Yeh. Complaints from other students have continued to emerge.
“It took a while for Facilities to bring traps,” said Olivia Perry ’28, who also lives in New College West. Perry continued that Facilities found “four baby mice who lived in my mattress topper over break … it’s basically like seven mice died in our room.”
In an email to the ‘Prince,’ University spokesperson Ahmad Rizvi said, “It is normal to see an uptick in mice activity during colder months as they seek warmth.”
“It is also common to see an increase in such activity after a period of extended vacancy,” added Rizvi.
Undergraduates like Wallar and Danny Gall ’28 reported calling the non-urgent PSAFE line or Facilities to reach out to the University for help in exterminating the pests in their rooms.
Rizvi told the ‘Prince’ that to keep buildings pest-free, “weekly exclusion work is also being performed. This work includes sealing up potential entry points around a building like cracks, gaps and holes to prevent pests from entering” in addition to regular maintenance.
Facilities, in partnership with Western Pest, keeps two technicians on campus Monday through Friday to handle routine work and respond to service calls. Facilities recommends a “clean environment with no food left out. Food should be stored in glass or hard plastic containers and trash should be regularly emptied.” Students can contact the Facilities Service Center at service@princeton.edu or 609-258-8000 if they encounter any pests.
Hallie Graham is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ from Portland, Tenn. She typically covers construction and architecture, facilities and housing, and University dining.
Ben Goldston is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Underneath the Princeton Public Library flows a hidden brook. Before Princeton was settled and developed, Harry’s Brook comprised the entirety of Spring Street, where the public library is now situated. Today, it runs via a concrete culvert beneath the streets of town. If someone were to put their ear to the pavement of the library’s parking lot, they might hear the river burbling away beneath.
But this body of water is not contained underground. It empties out into the Millstone River, which feeds into Lake Carnegie from the other side of Route 1. In total, the river spans a distance of just under 39 miles, incorporating over a dozen tributaries and providing much of central New Jersey’s drinking water.
The river has a rich history as both a gathering place for central New Jersey’s Munsee Lenape communities and early European colonizers, who formed the Delaware and Raritan (D&R) Canal, which runs alongside and at one point crosses over the Millstone, in 1834 as a direct line of transport between the cities of Philadelphia and New York.
In 1902, Howard Russel Butler, Class of 1876, asked steel magnate Andrew Carnegie to provide the funds for a lake where the University’s crew team could have more space to practice. Carnegie agreed, and by 1906, a dam had been placed at the confluence of the Millstone and the Stony Brook to form what we now know as Lake Carnegie. Now, some go through Princeton seeing only the lake, completely unaware of the river’s existence. Others, however, have been highly dedicated to exploring the Millstone’s topography, tributaries, history, and role in the Princeton area.
Anne McClintock
New Jersey’s Munsee Lenape communities have various traditions around the river and their own language to describe the wildlife environment it supports. At the annual Lunaape Language Camp in July 2023, Munsee-speaking language teachers and both Princeton University and Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS) faculty and students gathered on Lunaapahkiing, or traditional Lunaape Lands, around Princeton. The experience included a half-day journey on the Millstone led by community members.
Among the travelers were language keeper and teacher Kristin Jacobs and her son Barry Stonefish of the Eelunaapéewi Lahkeewiit, the Lenape Nation of Moraviantown, Ontario, Canada. They returned to campus in early November for Princeton’s third annual Munsee Language and History Symposium.
Jacobs and Stonefish reflected on their experiences of the river and the importance of water in Lenape culture. “For us, what’s most important is that it always begins with life,” Jacobs explained. “Water is life. It’s what creates life. It’s important to always protect that, so we use water in our ceremonies, and it’s a whole other area of knowledge.”
As a language teacher, words are especially important for Jacobs in describing natural entities. She noted that in the Lunaape language, some words are considered animate while others are inanimate, and many plants fall in the former category. There are also deep connections between many words and nature. Stonefish’s experience on the river was enhanced by learning the Lunaape names for the wildlife he was encountering as they traveled. “I rode with Nate, who works on the seed farm. The whole time, he was talking about plants, naming all the plants we saw, so it was a lot of fun,” said Stonefish.
For Jacobs, the whole experience stood out as meaningful. “The river journey was so beautiful,” she said. “Getting over the fear of being in the kayak was tough, but there were a lot of people who were comfortable paddling, and eventually seeing people get in and go across that first little bit made it feel better.”
To help Princetonians and community members continue engaging with both the river and the Lunaape language, Jacobs suggested putting up signage displaying traditional words for various plants in high-traffic areas along the river. “They could put up signs with traditional words… and where the meaning comes from. I feel like that could be meaningful,” explained Jacobs.
As Jacobs noted, the Millstone is a life-giving force, and many are involved in its protection. Since 2005, Jim Waltman ’86 has served as the Executive Director of the Watershed Institute, an organization based in Pennington, NJ with the mission of keeping the water clean and healthy through a combination of conservation, advocacy, science, and education. Waltman has had a life-long relationship with the river. He grew up in Princeton and later attended Princeton University as a biology major, where he joined the track team and often ran alongside Lake Carnegie and the canal.
Waltman spent his early career as a field biologist in the Galapagos Islands, but after earning his master’s, he went to Washington, DC for a six month internship where he “fell in love with policy and politics in a way I didn’t ever imagine.” He never returned to Yale for his Ph.D., instead working as a lobbyist who pushed for environmental legislation for 15 years. Waltman later moved back to Princeton and was reunited with the river of his childhood.
The Watershed Institute, originally called the Stony Brook-Millstone Watershed Association, was founded in 1949. Now, the institute is working on a number of initiatives, including trying to restore migratory fish by removing unnecessary dams along the Millstone, monitoring the river’s water quality, and working to combat HAB’s, or Harmful Algal Blooms, a type of cyanobacteria which endangers both wildlife and people. Staff and volunteers take samples of the river, involving local communities in the process of scientific testing and screening for toxins.
While Lake Carnegie is not dangerously toxic as of now, it’s “certainly not pristine,” according to Waltman. “Like most bodies of water, right after a storm, a lot gets dumped into the water,” he said. In order to prevent this, the organization works with New Jersey’s municipalities to strengthen water regulation, particularly of polluted stormwater.
Although Waltman characterizes our current times as especially difficult due to the changing climate and distorted water cycles, he is proud of the progress the institute has been able to make over the course of its history. “Looking back, the Watershed has been involved in every major water law and federal doctrine in the state… so it’s quite a legacy,” Waltman explained. Part of this legacy includes encouraging young people to engage with the institute’s programs and inspiring them to become scientists, teachers, and environmental activists. “It’s a great feeling, and a humbling one,” said Waltman.
Every fall, the Watershed Institute hosts one or more groups of Princeton Community Action and Outdoor Action groups. Waltman said that he always begins his sessions with Princeton students by saying, “Welcome to Princeton, and welcome to the Millstone Watershed.”
During one of his walking tours of the “hidden water of Princeton,” Waltman brought a group of students from the basement of the Princeton Public Library parking garage to Lake Carnegie. Waltman emphasized the importance of “getting those students to see when you walk around any place where the springs and rivers are, whether you’re in hills and valleys, or even if it’s an urban environment, even if it’s underground.”
Professor Anne McClintock
One Princeton professor who has a strong sense of the area’s “hidden water” is professor of Astrophysical Sciences Gaspar Bakos, who has declared himself the only Princetonian to commute to work by kayak, and harbors a dream to one day kayak all the way from the Millstone to the ocean.
Bakos has thoroughly explored the Millstone, even assigning his own names on Google Maps to its islands and banks. On one island, which he calls “Cormorant Island,” Bakos has found many beaver dams and has observed the beaver population cycles over the years. Bakos has also visited “Binocular Beach,” where his family went freshwater swimming, “Baby Banana Beach”, where he and his sons enjoyed a feast of bananas, and “Tire Beach,” where one can jump from a tire swing into the water. “Of course, it’s super dangerous, with floating debris everywhere. You never know what’s there,” Bakos warned.
In his travels, Bakos has often found himself entangled in thickets of lily pads. At times, he has been unable to proceed due to fallen trees and branches along the river. When he reaches such obstacles, Bakos simply hops out of the boat and hauls the kayak along with him. “My tactic,” Bakos explained, “is that I usually kayak as far as I can, getting totally exhausted, and then I go back. You can probably do about ten miles until it becomes very narrow.”
When Bakos first started traversing the river, he would bring a machete to clear the path in front of him, but soon had to upgrade to an electric chainsaw. “It felt really weird when I was standing in my kayak with a chainsaw, cutting branches falling all around,” said Bakos. “One day, I actually lost a part of my chainsaw in the water and had to dive in to get it out. And then I realized maybe this was not a good idea.”
As an astrophysicist, Bakos is particularly attuned to the nighttime wildlife of the river. When Bakos went kayaking at night, he noticed that bright lights from the hospital along Route 1 disturb the night environment. “I wish they could change that because this is a prime beaver area, and there are many, many beavers here whose environments are being altered.”
Bakos also hopes that in the future, there will be more opportunities for students to learn about the Millstone. “I think what’s incredible about [the Millstone] is how little it’s known…There’s no appreciation for this long slender patch of ecological landscape,” said Bakos.
Aaron Serianni
Students have also been encouraged to appreciate the river through Princeton’s Outdoor Action (OA) program, which offers occasional kayaking and canoe trips. OA Program Coordinator Candace Brendler moved to Princeton this past May and got the chance to go canoeing on the river with a class in early fall. “It was a really lovely section of the river that is in a really unique location,” said Brendler, noting the diversity of wildlife in such close proximity to the highway
Brendler has been paddling and rafting since she was in college and has always had an appreciation for rivers. “If you’re looking at a topographic view of the Earth, [rivers] are just like the veins… they’re the life-source,” she said. Through OA, Brendler hopes that she can “get more people to have positive experiences with the nearest body of water… to get more people to understand the value of rivers and hopefully better care for them.”
Director of the Program in Visual Arts Jeff Whetstone has created another opportunity for students to engage with the Millstone through a course he co-taught in Spring 2019 entitled “A River Runs Through Us.” Through the course, Whetstone hoped that students would realize “that they live in a hidden, natural and geologically unique environment. It’s perfectly visible, perfectly approachable, but no one knows that there’s a Millstone river running through campus,” said Whetstone, adding, “But all it takes for you to explore it, and it’s so easy to explore.”
Whetstone recounted the story of a day when the class was kayaking on the river and stumbled upon an abandoned beaver dam, which they proceeded to crawl into one by one on their hands and knees. “We just hung out there in the beaver lodge. You could still smell the beavers, and there was beaver hair all over the place,” said Whetstone. He added, “That was transformative for me because I had never done anything like that before.” Whetstone was struck by how comfortable, protective, and communal the lodge felt. “It didn’t feel exotic anymore. It’s almost like crawling into the skin of the beaver to visit their home,” he explained.
In addition to entering beaver dens, Whetstone has seen wild swans and held a freshly laid Canada goose egg on the Millstone. He also reported seeing “15 snakes an hour” in April. Whetstone emphasized the importance of protecting this nature with which we are so closely linked. He explained, “If we protect this crappy suburban wilderness around us, it’s much easier to have the mindset of protecting some more rare and grand wilderness somewhere else,” adding, “To see the grand wildernesses of the planet may make you think that the wilderness you are in is not important. But the nature that you live in is the most important nature at the present moment.”
Whetstone believes that students should recognize that the river has many different histories, including an indigenous cultural history, a period of colonial cultural history, and a modern cultural history. “The river runs through all those histories. So there is a cultural thread as well as a natural thread, and we can use it as a kind of skeleton to develop more comprehensive histories of the land.”
This ties into Whetstone’s idea that landscapes are more than just settings. “I think landscapes should be treated like characters, because they’re always changing, and they’re always influencing us… The Millstone should have a name on Princeton’s campus.”
Many of Whetstone’s students were deeply influenced by the course and maintained relationships with the river after their time as Princeton undergraduates ended. Maria Fleury ’22 took the course in the Spring of her first year and called it the best class she took. She reflected, “It was very impactful for me. It just completely shifted the way I related to Princeton as a place.”
Having grown up in an urban environment, Fleury was not fully comfortable interacting with animals at the start of the course. “Being on the river helped me engage with other creatures and understand their home,” she said.
Now completing a High Meadows Environmental Institute Fellowship at a climate science communications non-profit, Fleury still lives in Princeton and continues to appreciate her relationship with the river and the D&R Canal. “To me, rivers are just so powerful and majestic. I’ve had very emotional experiences and cried looking at the river,” said Fleury.
Amy Amatyah ’21 had a similar experience in the course, recalling how it opened her eyes to parts of Princeton’s campus she had never noticed before. Amatyah was a junior when she took the class and had never visited the towpath before, explaining, “To me, the towpath wasn’t a place I needed to be for school… so I didn’t go. That class was a real awakening to learning to be present in the place where I am.”
Amatyah noted that the specificity of the course’s focus on the Millstone allowed students to talk more broadly about a sense of place. “It was never just about the Millstone or the canal, it was about learning to be alive where you’re standing,” she explained, adding, “There’s a really beautiful New Jersey, and I would say go discover it.”
Raphaela Gold is a staff Features writer at the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the Millstone River runs under the Princeton Public Library. In fact, Harry’s Brook does. Additionally, the piece inaccurately outlined Waltman’s career path. The ’Prince’ regrets this error.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Street Week 2024 concludes with 629 students being offered spots in Bicker clubs. With the Class of 2026, Princeton’s largest undergraduate class in history taking to the street, also came historic numbers. According to a press release sent to The Daily Princetonian from the Interclub Council (ICC), a total of 1,193 students — about 80 percent of the sophomore class — took part in Street Week. This is the largest number of sophomore participants that the ICC has seen in the past decade.
Street Week took place between Jan. 29 and Feb. 6, as hundreds of undergraduates flocked to the eating clubs on Prospect Avenue for multiple nights of one-on-ones, group conversations, and games. Though the Class of 2026 is the largest class the University has ever seen, interest changed unevenly across the street. This year, there was a large increase seen in bickerees at Tiger Inn (TI), a drop in interest at Cannon Dial Elm, and Charter’s selective sign-in process leaving many who ranked it first on the ICC portal out in the cold.
Based on data obtained by ‘Prince,’ a total of 1,207 Princeton students were placed into eating clubs during Street Week 2024, a figure which includes juniors and seniors placed in eating clubs that were not counted in the figure provided by the ICC.
The ‘Prince’ reached out to officer teams at every eating club, along with the ICC. With the exception of the officers of the ICC, none of the officer teams responded by publication time.
629 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs, with 578 were placed into sign-in clubs. There was little change from last year's figure among Bicker clubs, when 633 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs, while the number of those who were placed into sign-in clubs rose from 516 the year prior. Of the 629 students accepted to a Bicker club this year, 607 were sophomores.
66 percent of sophomores who participated in Street Week chose to double bicker, a figure that has risen in recent years. In 2017, when double bicker was instituted for all clubs, the ICC reported that 46 percent of sophomores chose to double bicker.
Students had until Thursday, Feb. 8 at 8 p.m. to rank their club preferences. When decisions were released on Friday, Feb. 9 at 10 a.m., the site crashed, though it was up and running again within the next 30 minutes.
The ICC's computer system failed to place a small number of students in an eating club due to this year's swell in interest. According to Beams, "The computer matching system ensured that 99% of participants were matched with a club. Given 2026's unprecedented class size, requiring bickerees to rank just two sign-in clubs most likely resulted in the discrepancy between 99 and 100%." Beams stated that the ICC will recommend that students rank two additional clubs next year to avoid this outcome.
Tower accepted the most new members among the Bicker clubs, while Terrace welcomed the most among the sign-in clubs. The same situation occurred last year, though Tower’s incoming class size rose while Terrace’s fell.
Tower's incoming class in particular rose greatly. Tower welcomed 165 new members, including 10 juniors and three seniors — its largest incoming class since at least 2001. Tower members shared with the ‘Prince’ that 278 people signed up on the ICC website to bicker Tower compared to 232 last year. While 278 signed up to bicker Tower, only about 240 bickerees were discussed — a situation that also occurred last year, when about 170 bickerees were discussed. Tower had an acceptance rate of 59.35 percent, about the same as the 2023 rate of 60.8 percent.
Higher demand from 2026’s large class and limited spots available resulted in decreasing acceptance rates in most clubs. Tiger Inn, in particular, had a drop in acceptance rate from 29.4 to 25.7 percent. This made TI the most selective Bicker club on the street, narrowly edging out Ivy. This is the first time TI has held this distinction since double bicker was established for all Bicker clubs in 2017.
TI's increase selectivity was due to a surge in interest, with the number of bickerees rising from 296 to 374. TI’s incoming class rose from 87 last year to 96 this year, 90 of whom were sophomores and six of whom were juniors. TI’s acceptance rate was slightly lower for juniors than sophomores at 26 percent, with the club accepting six of 26 juniors — about 23 percent.
For the first time since at least 2001, more students bickered TI than Cap and Gown. Cap and Gown saw 360 bickerees, roughly unchanged from 358 last year, and accepted 100, yielding an acceptance rate of 27.8 percent. All those who bickered Cap and were admitted were members of the Class of 2026, as the club does not allow juniors or seniors to spring Bicker.
Cannon Dial Elm Club had 171 bickerees and accepted 101 new members. Both figures were down from last year, when Cannon had 193 bickerees and admitted 123. This yields an acceptance rate of approximately 59 percent, lower than the 63.7 percent acceptance rate last year. 99 of Cannon’s 101 admits were sophomores.
Ivy Club accepted 78 of its 291 bickerees this year, all of whom are sophomores. This marks a decrease from 87 last year, when Ivy accepted its biggest class ever. Despite this drop, 2024 marks the second-largest incoming class Ivy has seen since 2001. This decreased class size may be an attempt at reinforcing an Ivy practice of accepting a small number of students to foster a closer community. In 2016, former Ivy Bicker Chair Michael Moorin ’16 told the ‘Prince’ that “we believe Ivy’s small membership is core to its identity.”
Cottage Club accepted 89 students, 88 of whom were sophomores. According to individuals with knowledge of the process, about 270 students bickered Cottage, an estimate in line with estimated figures provided to the 'Prince' last year.
The ‘Prince’ also obtained data on how many people were placed into each sign-in club.
Terrace welcomed 143 new members into the club, 140 of whom are sophomores — the largest incoming class of any sign-in club.
Colonial offered spots to 120 members, of whom 115 were sophomores. This represents a surge from 70 people admitted last year. Colonial's uptick in membership may be due to its early sign-in program, in which new sophomore members could gain admission to the club before Street Week even began.
Quadrangle offered spots to 102 members, similar to the 109 it welcomed last year.
Cloister offered spots to 103 members, 102 of whom are sophomores, the largest incoming class the club has seen since 2014. Cloister has faced the possibility of closure given recent low membership numbers and financial difficulties, though a recent fundraising drive raised over $100,000 according to the club’s Graduate Board of Governors.
Cloister’s leadership admitted that many students placed into the club did not rank it first, with President Alexandra Wong ’25 saying in an email to admitted members that “Whether or not Cloister was your first choice, we’re thrilled to have you in 65 Prospect and we can’t wait to get to know all of you.”
Though Cloister admitted a large number of students, its struggles with yield in the past mean that this new influx may not lead to a surge in membership. A ‘Prince’ analysis found that only 18 of the 86 students Cloister admitted in February 2023 were listed as members in November.
Charter welcomed 110 members to the club, in line with the 102 it accepted in 2023. Charter is the only eating club that utilizes a selective sign-in process that awards points to prospective members for demonstrating interest in the club, including attending events such as coffee chats pre-winter break and during Street Week.
Charter has increased in popularity since its adoption of selective sign-in in 2020. Based on the point values and eating club placements of several members who ranked Charter first, the ‘Prince’ corroborated that the cutoff for admission to Charter was approximately 13 points — an increase from last year’s cutoff. Using this estimate, anyone with less than 13 points, or who did not rank Charter first, was not offered membership into the club.
With Charter continuing to increase in popularity, but not increasing its incoming class, conversations are re-emerging whether Charter should become a Bicker club as it decided to do in 2021 — a plan that was eventually dropped. In interviews with the ‘Prince,’ two students who ranked Charter first but did not gain admission to the club said they do not believe Bicker is the solution to rectify Charter’s admission woes, but failed to conceive any alternatives to handling the club’s continued surge in popularity.
“I kind of just put the blame on me for not deciding early enough. I hope they [the eating clubs] take this as a learning experience. So maybe they’ll try to change the system somehow next year to make it less stressful for people,” Dashram Pai ’26, a sophomore who ranked Charter first and said he received 12 points, said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’
Pai is a staff Constructor for the Puzzles section of the ‘Prince.’
Olin Zimmet ’26, a sophomore who ranked Charter first and said he received 12 points, told the ‘Prince,’ “The unfortunate nature of my — and many others’ — circumstances is simply due to the sheer number of students who vied for a spot, not any wrongdoing on the part of Charter or its officers.”
To many members, alumni, and students, Charter has developed a unique identity as a club that rejects evaluative Bicker, making such changes difficult.
“Evidently, this outcome is unfortunate for folks like me who had 12 or 13 points and were not admitted, but I cannot think of another way for Charter to both remain selective and make the system more fair than it already is,” Zimmet added.
Charter was not the only club that left students disappointed at 10 a.m. on Friday.
“I’d say that I felt like I could pretty much waltz in, no problem,” Courtney Harrison ’26, an athlete on the softball team who bickered Cannon, said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ Harrison was not among the 101 new members accepted into Cannon, despite the fact that all of the other sophomores on her team that bickered Cannon gained admission into the club. Cannon members are primarily athletes.
Harrison said that her rejection from the club left her in a state of “denial.”
She learned of the news from her teammates Thursday night so that she wouldn’t be “blindsided” on Friday morning. Harrison’s team assured her that she was not “red carded” during Cannon deliberations, in which a member of the club negatively flags a bickeree, eliminating them from discussion and the possibility of membership.
Despite these frustrations, most sophomores emerged from Street Week satisfied, with the ICC saying that 81 percent of students who participated in Street Week were placed into their first or second choice club.
In the wake of Street Week, some students have begun to explore alternate options for their dining plan next year, such as joining a co-op, going independent, enrolling in the University dining hall plan, or joining another sign-in club, with Pai saying he hopes to sign in to Colonial, while Zimmet plans to go independent.
The end of Princeton’s unique and historic tradition has brought reflection and melancholy to the students who participated.
“Social standing doesn’t speak to how you are as a person and your character,” Harrison added. “What’s important in being at this university and at any university is choosing people that really see you as you generally are.”
Even though there is still much to decide, some students, like Harrison, are just happy to go back to normal life.
“During that week I just felt like I wasn’t putting my best quality forward. So finally [when Street Week was over] I felt like I could exclusively start focusing on academics as well as softball.”
Justus Wilhoit is a senior News writer and assistant Audience editor for the ‘Prince.’
Mary Ma contributed data visualization for this piece.
Note: This piece has been updated since publication to include an additional figure on the number of bickerees.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Street Week 2025 has concluded, with all of the 1,263 students who chose to pursue an eating club given a place according to a press release from the Interclub Council (ICC). 83 percent of the Class of 2027 participated in Street Week, up from 80 percent of the Class of 2026 last year. Tiger Inn (TI) remains the most selective club, Cap and Gown Club has reclaimed the distinction of being the most bickered club, and Tower has seen a near 17 percentage point decrease in acceptance rate from last year, from 59 to 42 percent.
Street Week refers to a week of conversations and social events during which many sophomores and juniors explore the various eating clubs located on Prospect Avenue. This year’s Street Week was held from Feb. 2 to Feb. 7.
In a press release issued to The Daily Princetonian, President of the ICC Vincent Jiang ’25 shared that 119 juniors and 1,144 sophomores were placed into the 11 eating clubs.
Last year, the ICC failed to place a small number of students  — less than one percent — into an eating club due to the demand from the unprecedentedly-large class of 2026. This year, the ICC was able to place all students who took part in Street Week activities, as all registered students were required to rank all five sign-in clubs, instead of just two, which was the practice in years prior.
“The Street as a whole has successfully adapted to the larger size of the Class of 2026 and beyond, reflected in our increased numbers with many clubs reaching physical capacity,” Jiang wrote.
The ‘Prince’ contacted officer teams at every eating club, as well as the ICC. Jiang told the ‘Prince’ that “the eating clubs have discussed and we have decided that we are going to send out one joint ICC press release.”
There are three systems for admittance into the eating clubs. Cloister Inn, Colonial Club, Quadrangle Club, and Terrace Club, all use the “sign-in” system, where students are free to sign up for the clubs, and the students are randomly selected to join a given club based on the space available.
An additional feature of the sign-in option is the group sign-in, which allows groups of sophomores and juniors to sign-in to the same club with their friends. The ICC shared in their press release that they saw “32 students (across 10 groups) participate in the ICC’s group sign-in feature.” This was an increase from only 25 students from five groups last year.
Cannon Dial Elm Club, Cap and Gown, Cottage Club, Ivy Club, Tower, and Tiger Inn all use the “bicker” system, where prospective members engage in conversations and games with current members. Clubs then hold member or Bicker committee discussions that determine which students each club accepts. Each student is able to bicker up to two clubs.
Charter Club operates on a third, unique system of acceptance. It is the only club that uses a selective sign-in process, awarding points to prospective members for demonstrating interest in the club, including by attending events before winter break and during Street Week.
Following criticism for its selective sign-in process during last year’s Street Week, when people who attended 12 out of 14 events were not accepted to the club, then-Charter President Anna Johns ’25 announced in November that there would be changes to make the process more accommodating. Charter would hold 14 point-earning opportunities again in 2025. However, this year, the eating club capped the number of points an individual can receive at nine.
“We hope that what this will do is reduce some pressure, you don’t have to go to all 14 events, because we stop counting at nine,” Johns said at a panel held by the ICC in November.
Charter’s process is non-evaluative, so if more students get nine points and rank Charter first than there is space in the club, membership will be selected via a lottery.
Registration for Street Week lasted from the afternoon of Jan. 26 to Feb. 1. Students had until Thursday, Feb. 6 at 8 p.m. to rank their club preferences, before decisions were released the next day at 10 a.m. The ranking window for the eating clubs opened on Feb. 4 at 8 p.m. and closed on Feb. 6 at 8 p.m. At 10 a.m. on Feb. 7, students received notification of their acceptance to an eating club. Bicker discussions generally start on Tuesday or Wednesday night and can last into the wee hours of Friday morning.
In the press release, Jiang stated that “735 students utilize[d] the ICC’s double-bicker.” Of the total 1,795 bickerees, which included double-bickerees twice, 325 students single-bickered, meaning a total of 1,060 students bickered this year. 203 signed into clubs without bickering.
624 of the 1,060 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs — a five person decrease in accepted Bicker students from last year.
TI was the most selective club, accepting 96 of the 395 bickerees for a 24.3 percent acceptance rate, compared with last year’s 25.7 percent acceptance rate. 90 of these accepted students were sophomores, while the remaining 6 were juniors. TI accepted the same number of students this year as it did last year.
Cannon Dial Elm had the highest acceptance rate of bicker clubs this year, offering admittance to 118 of its 196 bickerees for a 60 percent acceptance rate. This was a 1.1 point increase in acceptance from last year. Cannon admitted 101 members last year.
Tower let in the most members among the Bicker clubs, accepting 143 of the 337 bickerees. This year, Tower saw an increase in bickerees, compared with 278 last year.
While 337 signed up to bicker Tower, only 302 went to Bicker sessions and were thus discussed. Tower had an acceptance rate of 42.4 percent, a decrease of 17 percentage points from last year.
Cap and Gown was the most bickered club with 397 bickerees, reclaiming the title from TI, which was most-bickered last year.. The club accepted an equal number of male and female bickerees, welcoming 100 new members total. The 25 percent acceptance rate is a 2.6 point decrease from last year’s acceptance rate.
Head Audience Editor and Senior News Writer Justus Wilhoit ’26 is a member of the Cap and Gown Club and has recused himself from reporting on the club.
Ivy Club had a 30.4 percent acceptance rate, admitting 79 members out of 260 bickerees, a 3.6 point increase from last year. Last year, the club accepted 78 of its 291 bickerees, all of whom were sophomores.
Ivy has prided itself on accepting a small number of students to foster a close community. In 2016, former Ivy Bicker Chair Michael Moorin ’16 told the ‘Prince’ that “we believe Ivy’s small membership is core to its identity.”
Cottage Club welcomed 88 new members out of its 240 bickerees, a 36.7 percent acceptance rate relative to last year’s 33 percent.
Quadrangle Club accepted the most new members among the sign-in clubs, a distinction held by Terrace last year. Quadrangle Club welcomed 155 new members into the club, 133 of whom are sophomores, compared with 102 new members overall welcomed last year.
Cloister offered spots to 86 members, a decrease from last year when they offered spots to 103 members. Notably, almost 14 percent of Cloister’s new members were also offered spots last year.
Charter welcomed 100 members to the club, in line with the 110 accepted last year.
Terrace welcomed 131 members to the club, in line with 143 new members welcomed last year.
Colonial welcomed 120 members to the club, the same number welcomed to the club last year.
82 percent of students who participated in Street Week were placed into their first or second choice club, an increase from 80 percent last year, according to the ICC. In the wake of Street Week, some students have begun to explore alternate options for their dining plans next year, such as joining a co-op, going independent, re-enrolling in the University dining hall plan, joining a sign-in club, or waiting to bicker again in the fall.
However, even getting a spot in a bicker eating club during Fall Bicker isn’t a guarantee: The process has become more competitive with lower acceptance rates and fewer spots available in recent years.
Students will have until 9 a.m. on Feb. 23 to sign in to the open clubs: Cloister, Colonial, and Quadrangle.
Editor’s Note: The article has been updated to reflect the number of students offered spots in Colonial Club during Street Week 2025.
Justus Wilhoit is a head Audience editor and senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Kenosha, Wis. and typically covers Princeton’s eating clubs and co-ops, identity and student life, and the Trump administration.
Luke Grippo is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including USG, the CPUC, and institutional legacy, but loves to write in any area.
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.This year, 83 percent of sophomores participated in Street Week, and 1,263 students were placed into an eating club. We’ve all heard the arguments for and against bicker and for and against eating clubs as institutions. This year, we asked our writers to share more nuanced reflections on what works and doesn’t work about Street Week 2025 – what should be preserved, and what should be reformed.
By Siyeon Lee, Associate Opinion Editor
Laughter, music, and damn good tacos were my main takeaways from the Brown co-op’s sophomore dinner a few weeks ago. In the warm beige glow of the bustling kitchen, I kept thinking to myself, “Why does nobody talk about how nice this is?” While I was set to bicker in the upcoming week, I saw myself thriving in one of Princeton’s four co-ops, student-run dining communities where members cook, eat, and clean together.
Co-ops are a niche choice at Princeton, but they deserve more appreciation. They offer a tight-knit community, cost nearly 95 percent less than eating club dues, and teach critical life skills — Cooking? Cleaning? Who would’ve thought? It’s natural to gravitate toward the Street when most upperclassmen join eating clubs — I did, too. But while people cite social life and community as their reasons for joining, co-ops offer both at a fraction of the price. Sure, they’re different — you won’t have members-only formals or hundreds of members to constantly interact with, as most co-ops range from 30–50 people. But my friends in co-ops still enjoy the street through guest meals, and many use the money they save on multi-city trips across the globe or even a car.
Though I love my eating club, I plan to reevaluate next fall whether a co-op might be a better option. Whether you’re in an eating club or not, you absolutely should, too.
Associate Opinion Editor Siyeon Lee is a sophomore from Seoul, South Korea intending to major in History. She can be reached at siyeonlee[at]princeton.edu.
By Shane McCauley, Assistant Opinion Editor
This bicker season, Princeton students of all class years got a unique look into eating club life through an Instagram account called The Hungry Tiger. In a series of reels, the account’s creators tried club cuisine, interviewed members and dining staff, and gave a glimpse into each club’s unique traditions.
With uniformly positive food reviews and quick jump-cuts, I wouldn’t call the account’s content independent journalism. But as a first-year with little knowledge of eating club culture, it still helped assuage my anxiety about club life. Clubs should continue offering digital glimpses into club life to familiarize first-years with eating clubs beyond parties and reputations.
Before I arrived at Princeton, I saw eating clubs as intimidating, elitist institutions shrouded in mystery. And as a first-year, attending their parties doesn’t exactly convey what being a member is like. The Hungry Tiger’s content — simple as it is — still offered valuable information about club atmospheres as my sophomore year draws closer.
While students can learn about club cultures by participating in meal exchanges or pre-bicker events, many first-years don’t have close friends in several clubs with whom they can meal swap, and pre-bicker events are generally limited to sophomores.
Unfortunately, the account was unable to film inside Cottage or Ivy, in the latter case due to a strict no-filming policy. But clubs can maintain their alluring reputations without keeping themselves entirely secret. To increase transparency about club life for all students — including first-years — clubs should take every opportunity to expand their digital presence, perhaps beyond simple food reviews.
Shane McCauley is an Assistant Opinion Editor from Boston intending to major in Anthropology. He can be reached at sm8000[at]princeton.edu.
By Christofer Robles, Editorial Board Chair
While I have previously defended Bicker in this paper, this year I am feeling much less sympathetic. I call on The Interclub Council (ICC) to investigate and publicize the Bicker processes of each club. Without transparency about various clubs’ Bicker processes, it’s impossible to know which aspects of bicker are essential to preserving club cultures and which ones are inequitable. Only then can any reasonable debate on the merits of the process be had.
I continue to believe in the spirit of Bicker: “every club on Prospect has an identity — Bicker just makes that identity intentional.” But while I, and others before me, have called for “a strong commitment to a better Bicker,” it is becoming increasingly clear that “better Bicker” is too ill-defined of a goal for a few twenty-somethings to accomplish without a commitment to finding concrete reforms.
Listing grievances with a specific club would be counterproductive — the shortcomings of Bicker are shared between the selective clubs. Talk to any upperclassman in any Bicker club: injury is a feature of the process writ large.
I call on the ICC to hire an independent law firm to investigate problematic Bicker practices, publish their findings, and push Prospect Avenue towards a more progressive Bicker. Bickerees are often ignorant to the inner workings of their prospective clubs — they are owed transparency. Clubs should be beholden to common standards of inclusivity — scandal is not foreign to the Street, and social stigma and club loyalty prevent Bicker from receiving its due open criticism and correction.
Christofer Robles is the Editorial Board Chair for the 149th Board and a member of the illustrious Cap & Gown Club. He can be reached at cdrobles[at]princeton.edu.
By Jorge Reyes, Columnist
This year, Cap & Gown was the most bickered club. As a first-year on financial aid planning on bickering next spring, this does not surprise me.
While club culture, leadership, and other factors certainly contribute to the choices made by bickering students each year, strong financial aid policies can encourage students to consider clubs that are otherwise inaccessible and impact the makeup of clubs’ Bicker classes.
For students seeking to join a club whose dues exceed the University’s financial aid allowance, Cap & Gown is one of the most accessible. Their commitment to ensure students on full financial aid pay no out-of-pocket expenses, as well as the grant provided to sophomores to cover the difference between fees and University aid, does not go unseen. Ivy and Cannon are the other bicker clubs with dues over the University allowance.
Although the rest of the Bicker clubs also have ways to reduce the financial burden for students on aid, Cap & Gown stands out by assuring that all students on financial aid receive a grant to help with fees rather than hold a “case-by-case” process like some of the other clubs.
For future Street Weeks, I encourage the leadership of all clubs to consider the role their financial aid policies play in attracting members. Take it from a current first-year who participated in the Freshman Scholars Institute and is already planning for Street Week: Cap & Gown’s transparent financial aid policies make it an attractive choice for many bickerees.
Jorge Reyes is an Opinion columnist for the ‘Prince.’ You can read his column, “No Tiger Left Behind,” every three weeks on Tuesday here. He can be reached at jr7982[at]princeton.edu.
By Sophia Zuo, Contributing Writer
While Princeton students are no stranger to rainbow-striped Google calendars, or sprinting from one commitment to the next, the compressed duration of Bicker adds unnecessary strain and fatigue to an already stressful situation.
As I witnessed firsthand, double bickerees had to move from a morning of classes to a grueling afternoon of bicker sessions, and chose chugging caffeine over getting a good night of rest in order to do it all.
Students inevitably take bicker extremely seriously — it’s a heavy determinant of future social circles. But its condensed timeline creates a pressure-cooker environment where students are constantly on edge, yet must appear relaxed and carefree in order to make a good impression.
Bicker is comparable to standardized testing: both are one-shot, widely bought-into, and high-stakes. But while the SAT or AP exams may measure intelligence or understanding of an academic topic, bicker serves to measure something as volatile as personality, which, during the bicker process, we lose control over.
It can be argued that a process as stressful as bicker should be as short as possible. However, if the length of bicker means students are performing worse and unable to reflect their best selves, it’s worth reconsidering alternatives.
Clubs could spread their Bicker sessions over longer periods, or the ICC could mandate that clubs host sessions across different days. For those who choose to double Bicker, such changes would make Bicker a much more forgiving process, and allow students to come to sessions unexhausted and as genuine as possible.
Sophia Zuo is a sophomore contributing writer from Hsinchu, Taiwan. She can be reached at sz5856[at]princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.The 2025 eating club admission process ended on February 7th. This year’s Bicker and sign-in was characterized by a record-breaking 83 percent participation rate among the Class of 2027, the second year of Princeton’s class size expansion, leading to sinking acceptance rates at many clubs. Today, we take you inside the notoriously opaque Bicker process and analyze its outcomes.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Each year, Street Week brings exciting opportunities, as hundreds of sophomores navigate the eating club selection process — but with Bicker clubs, on average, rejecting nearly two thirds of applicants, it also brings disappointment for many students.
Tower, in particular, had a drop of 17 percentage points in its acceptance rate — the lowest since at least 2018. No club had a significant increase in acceptance rate. This Street Week, 624 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs, compared to 629 in 2024 and 633 the year before. The Class of 2027, with 1,366 members, is the second expanded class year to participate in Street Week.
With hundreds of students vying for limited spots, some individuals felt daunted by the numbers. Olivia Bell ’27 held the perspective that Bicker felt less about personality and more about connections.
“Cap, I didn’t think I’d get in … I think it’s mainly about who you know, and not as much about your character and if they like you as a person,” said Bell. She ultimately joined Charter.
“I had trouble believing that out of the 400 people bickering Cap, they’ll like me over 300 other people — for a while, I thought to myself, is there even a point bickering?” added Melody Cui ’27. She is now a member of Cap and Gown.
Despite increasing interest in Cap and Gown, its accepted class sizes have remained relatively constant in recent years. While most clubs have increased membership to accommodate growing demand, Cap is the only Bicker club that has not substantially expanded since at least 2021. This lack of change has made an already selective process even more competitive, as more students apply for the same number of spots each year.
While Tower accepted one of its largest Bicker classes since 2000, its acceptance rate also dropped significantly from last year, making entry into the club more competitive than expected. This trend reflects growing interest in Tower.
Though double Bicker was instituted for all clubs in 2017, offering students more flexibility, the uncertainty surrounding admission still impacts how some students rank their club preferences.
“When I was ranking the clubs, I was thinking about what club I would want to go to the most, but also realistically what club would I have a chance of getting into,” Cui explained. But ultimately, she decided to trust her instincts. “At the end of the day, they’ll choose what they want, so I should choose what I want too.”
Some clubs, like Charter and Cap, have started accommodating for the size increase. Charter, for instance, is currently expanding its dining space, while Cap added a new wing to their dining room.
Overall, the number of newly admitted Bickerees hasn’t kept up with Princeton’s growing class size, leaving acceptance rates tighter than ever. For the coming years, students may expect to continue bickering with a mix of excitement, strategy, and uncertainty, hoping in the end to find a place that feels like home.
Chima Oparaji is a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
When I entered Tiger Inn (TI) for Bicker two years ago, it was my second time in the building. I chose to bicker TI because I felt that the club had made strides to be more inclusive and heal their reputation and community. Nevertheless, I was unsure about joining the club and remained fearful of a cold and condescending environment, considering the negative past surrounding the bicker process and the troubling history of the club. Instead, however, I found a friendly and welcoming crowd of students excited to get to know me. I had such a pleasant experience that I joined the eating club and have loved it ever since.
Last year, I was apprehensive to see the other side of the process. After reading several angry criticisms of the eating clubs and hearing rumors of corruption and discrimination, I worried that my love for TI would sour. However, I was once again surprised. There was a deliberate and embodied display of compassion and acceptance of all bickerees that permeated the core of the process.
Though my experience as a bickeree and a member has been nothing but positive, I cannot deny the truth. Systems of power are self-replicating: we selected sophomores who we knew and liked and excluded those who didn’t fit the mold. At times, this exclusion can be nasty, prejudiced, and underhanded. Contrary to the hawkish words of its critics, however, Bicker is not the one to blame. Bicker is an explicit representation of power dynamics that are implicitly present in other social groups. These toxic power dynamics, entangled with a larger American, scholarly, and capitalist culture, are present in Bicker and sign-in clubs alike. These dynamics need to be exposed and restructured with reflexivity and transparency in mind.
Bicker brings to the surface what remains hidden in other settings, like the sign-in clubs. This hidden exclusion manifests in sign-in clubs through members hiding social hierarchies: a friend of mine recently complained that he barely knew anyone in his sign-in club because the cliques made him uncomfortable. The fact that this kind of exclusivity is obscured means that it has the potential to be much worse. Clubs could secretly manipulate the sign-in process without accountability, arbitrarily accepting entire teams or friend groups, while waitlisting others. Shrouded under an assumption of inclusivity, sign-in clubs have the potential to hide corrupt practices.
To be clear, sign-in clubs are probably not currently doing (and would likely never do) something so devious and drastic, and many students join the current sign-in clubs because they are less affiliated with external power systems. However, if Bicker were to be abolished, I doubt that the egalitarian dynamic of sign-in clubs would be adopted by the rest of the street. If all clubs were forced to abandon Bicker, it would be foolish to expect Greek letter organizations, sports teams, clubs, and other groups, to loosen their grip on their social capital. They would simply continue their practices behind an additional layer of secrecy, increasing the barrier to equity.
Currently, every student who signs in to eating clubs is almost guaranteed to get into at least one. If Bicker is abolished, formerly selective clubs may attempt to uphold exclusivity through price hikes and other barriers to entry that would disproportionately affect marginalized identities. In clubs where systems of exclusivity are the norm, exclusivity would perpetuate itself whether its execution is public or private. In addition, large intersecting institutions will continue to exercise and reproduce their power whether Bicker clubs exist or not. Removing Bicker is not the answer to elitism and exclusivity. It is a symptom of a real problem, but ending Bicker would only obscure that symptom and make the disease untreatable. In fact, the benefit of a system like Bicker is that it can be improved and edited.
A candid, transparent Bicker would allow for more regulation and could create a culture of accountability. To do so, it should be mandatory for clubs to publicize demographic data of their bickerees and accepted members. This would encourage clubs to seek out diverse crowds and decrease phenotypical biases.
Further, the score manipulation known as “dirty bickering”  — inflating or tanking a bickeree’s score due to factors outside of their performance at Bicker — needs to be either actively policed or embraced as a feature. Policing dirty bickering could involve introducing and enforcing double-blind and random segments of Bicker and instituting punishments for engaging in foul play.
On the other hand, “embracing” dirty bickering could look like allowing official bids from affiliated organizations or normalizing sophomore scores based on how many members they know. This process is what already occurs behind the scenes. Publicizing and standardizing this process would at least inform all those involved and be the basis for some progress. Many of the grievances about Bicker come from the fact that it falsely presents itself as a meritocratic process. At the very least, sophomores should be properly informed by the eating clubs if their acceptance is not only about how cool they are but also about who they know. We must either eliminate or legitimize this aspect to “clean up” Bicker and set sophomores up for success.
All members should also be involved in Bicker discussions. What I loved the most about TI discussions is that we heard everyone’s voice, and nearly every bickeree had representation and consideration. On the other end of the spectrum is a conclave-style selection process where a small council conspires behind closed doors to select new members. Bicker should avoid this technique and instead adopt a more open and honest process with an idea of equal opportunity and cooperation.
Another issue with Bicker is that the power differential between members and bickerees is steep, which adds unnecessary tension and decreases accountability. To narrow this gap, there ought to be a reflexive scoring system, where bickerees score members in the same way members score bickerees. This new rating would affect the member during discussions, where their judgments would be weighted according to their score. This would discourage intimidation tactics and disrespectful practices. Trends in these scores could assist in informing disciplinary actions and address club-wide shortcomings.
Another difficulty of Bicker is that it is a high-octane social stressor packed into the first few days of school in the spring semester. Bicker should be a long, low-frequency process that starts in the fall with events that contribute tangibly to Bicker results. Then, there could be many more lower stake and lower intensity events in which more sophomores could participate. This way, sophomores who are traveling, sick, or just having a bad day aren’t being unjustly excluded. Currently, many pre-Bicker events have no direct impact on Bicker scores, meaning that they only impact dirty bickering. These events need to be a part of the selection process in a regulated way. In addition, decreasing the stress around the event and letting the sophomores get to know the club more would alleviate some of the pain of the process.
Bicker is a unique opportunity to bring power dynamics and corruption into the limelight. It has the potential to be a regulatory tool if used in the right manner. I am not claiming that Bicker is the only option for the future of Princeton’s social scene. However, it would be unwise to remove it hastily. Abolishing Bicker would only obscure misdeeds and slow progress toward inclusivity and egalitarianism. We can create a Bicker with which we are all comfortable by restructuring with transparency in mind. Implementing a reflexive scoring system and a more prolonged, low-pressure process can mitigate the power differential and anxiety associated with Bicker. The time has come for Bicker to evolve, and the appropriate adjustments have the potential to transform it into a positive force in Princeton’s social milieu.
David Smith is a senior, a member of Tiger Inn, and the co-chair of the club’s DEI committee. He is a former staff Audience creator for the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached at dcs4@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.2024 Fall Street Week concluded with 203 students in the Classes of 2025 and 2026 being offered spots in eating clubs. 46 students were offered spots in four of the six Bicker Clubs — neither Tiger Inn nor Cottage Club held Street Week events. Fall Street Week took place between Sept. 3 and Sept. 10, as undergraduates flocked to the eating clubs on Prospect Avenue for multiple nights of one-on-ones, group conversations, and games.
Two of the five sign-in clubs, Terrace Club and Charter Club, also did not hold Fall Street Week events. Three did participate in Fall Street Week: Quadrangle Club, Colonial Club, and Cloister Inn. Each hosted a variety of events for juniors and seniors each afternoon, ranging from karaoke nights to ice cream socials.
With 80 percent of the Class of 2026 — Princeton’s largest undergraduate class in history — taking part in Street Week last spring, the effects are still felt months later. A press release from the Interclub Council (ICC) shared with The Daily Princetonian revealed that 36 seniors (2.68 percent of the Class of 2025) and 167 juniors (11.13 percent of the Class of 2026) participated in Fall 2024 Street Week.
The ICC wrote that “the Street as a whole is continuing to adapt to the larger size of the Class of 2026 and beyond and that is reflected in our increasing numbers with many clubs reaching physical capacity.”
In a sponsored content article created by the Graduate Interclub Council (GICC) and published in the ‘Prince’ back in May, GICC Chairman Hap Cooper ’82 warned students of the limited spots remaining and encouraged those who were not yet placed to not remain committed to a particular eating club following the conclusion of 2024 Spring Street Week.
“We [GICC] wanted to communicate now that if fall bicker is held at all during the 2024–25 school year, spaces will be EXTREMELY limited and a majority of selective clubs will not participate. Their physical capacity limitations won’t allow it,” he wrote at the time.
Cooper encouraged individuals to join clubs that have room, and stated there will be more opportunities in the future for clubs to collaborate.
“The GICC is committed to ensuring ALL eleven clubs are viable and robust … indefinitely. We are also materially stepping up our percentage of joint parties and activities — starting immediately. So no matter what club you join, you will be mixing with virtually everyone on the Street,” Cooper added.
Students had until Thursday, Sept. 12 at 8 p.m. to rank their club preferences, and decisions were released on Friday, Sept. 13 at 10 a.m. 44 percent of seniors were placed into their first-choice club, but just 20 percent of juniors were placed into their first-choice club.
The ICC’s computer system was able to place 100 percent of students into an eating club. Earlier this year, the computer system failed to place a small number of students in an eating club due to Class of 2026’s unprecedented class size.
Tower accepted the most new members among the Bicker clubs this fall. Tower accepted half of 44 bickerees, welcoming 22 new members, including 9 seniors and 13 juniors. Tower’s new members add to the 165 bickerees previously accepted in the spring, marking Tower’s largest incoming class since 2001.
Cap and Gown was the most bickered eating club, with 90 bickerees discussed and accepting four seniors and eight juniors, 13 percent of their bickerees.
Assistant Audience editor and senior News writer Justus Wilhoit ’26 is a member of the Cap and Gown Club and has recused himself from reporting on the club.
Cannon Dial Elm Club had 26 bickerees and only accepted six new members, yielding a 23.1 percent acceptance rate. The ‘Prince’ was unable to attain class year information.
Ivy Club accepted 6 of its 35 bickerees this fall. Fall acceptance rate was at 17.1 percent, whereas spring was 26.8 percent.
Higher demand from the Class of 2026’s large size combined with limited available spots resulted in decreasing acceptance rates for most clubs. Tower’s fall bicker had an acceptance rate of 50 percent, lower than its 59.35 percent acceptance rate in the spring. Cap and Gown fall bicker had an acceptance rate of 13.3 percent, lower than its acceptance rate of 27.8 percent in the spring.
As Princeton continues to expand its class sizes, it is unclear whether eating clubs will adjust to accommodate more members, or if membership will simply become more competitive.
Justus Wilhoit is a senior News writer and an assistant Audience editor for the ‘Prince.’
Justin Tam is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ from Edison, New Jersey.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Here at Princeton, our eating clubs have big secrets. Buried deep in the records of the eating clubs are their demographics — which these clubs have avoided releasing. Other writers have argued that the eating clubs are elitist — with the most egregious example, Ivy, using socioeconomic markers such as one’s high school or parentage to make decisions, according to bicker cards leaked in 2017.
But without comprehensive data, it’s been difficult to hold these clubs accountable — it’s hard to challenge inequities without statistics. At the same time, a lack of information limits students’ freedom to make informed choices about which eating club to join. To solve these problems, eating clubs should report their demographics, alongside written descriptions about patterns in these demographics.
Not a single club reports their demographic data. However, in 2018, the University announced that eating club presidents have access to this data. I suspect that a major reason for this is the fact that, well, eating clubs are not diverse — the ‘Prince’ 2024 Senior Survey shows concerning estimates.
This is worse for some clubs than others: from crosstabs data, about 75 percent of Tiger Inn identifies as only white (compared to half of respondents in general). However, a lack of racial representation is a problem for eating clubs in general — while around 80 percent of white students are in eating clubs, a mere 57.5 percent of Black students are.
The economic data is disastrous as well, according to our numbers. Households with annual incomes over 500 thousand dollars are in the top 2 percent of the American population. For seniors who weren’t in a club, around 5 percent are from these households. For seniors in general, this number was 12 percent. For seniors in Ivy Club, this was a whopping 39 percent.
These are estimates, of course. The Senior Survey samples consist of about a third of each clubs’ graduating class. In addition, there may be some selection bias. But if an eating club disagrees with this data, it should feel free to publish its own demographic information.
Alongside statistics, clubs such as TI and Ivy should publish written statements to explain why their demographics are so different from the University average. This process of self-evaluation is essential in keeping these clubs accountable. The awkwardness of defending certain statistics could convince clubs to admit in a more equitable manner.
In selecting an eating club, students have a legitimate interest in joining a diverse group. After all, people want to work in diverse workplaces and live in a diverse nation. More information cannot hurt — it would allow people to make the most educated choices possible. Most Princetonians wish this information was available — in 2016, 69 percent of undergraduates voted in favor of a USG referendum to release demographics.
But the Interclub Council (ICC), consisting of the eating club presidents, refused, claiming at the time that demographics are private, personal information. This makes no sense. There are around 200 students in each club — it is impossible to make conclusions about individual members from demographic information.
It’s been almost a decade since then, and this referendum has died. It is time to revive this proposal — this time, from the bottom up. As students, we have much more bargaining power than we often realize.
There is an impressive record of successful, student-led movements to influence reforms on the Street. At the start of the 1900s, a substantial portion of students who sought to join an eating club were not given a spot at a single club. Due to the elitist nature of bicker, this impacted ethnic and religious minorities the most.
In response, students organized. In 1949, around 80 percent of Princeton sophomores signed a petition to not bicker unless all students got a bid — and they were successful.
In the fall of 2025, we can start a similar petition to reject clubs that are not transparent about their demographics. Of course, it would be rather difficult to gather 80% of the sophomores — but even a smaller protest could swing some clubs towards releasing their information. In particular, clubs with diverse demographics, such as Quad, could have a lot to gain from implementing such a change.
Change can happen from within, too. Members of an eating club, who feel compelled to make their clubs more diverse, should push their clubs to publish demographic information. At the least, eating clubs should hold internal referenda about whether or not to publish demographic data —  I suspect some of the more progressive clubs would support such a proposal.
When our institutions, whether the USG or the ICC, fail to look out for us, we have the chance to make changes for our own sake. That is the nature of the democratic process — empowering the people. The Street is the center of Princeton's social life, and as a result, we all have a stake in this matter. The eating clubs should say who sits at the table.Raf Basas (he/him/his) is a first-year Opinion columnist from Elk Grove, Calif. intending to major in English, Politics, or SPIA. He can be reached at rb4078[at]princeton.edu or @raf.basas on Instagram. His column, “Out of the Ivory Tower,” runs every two weeks on Tuesday. All of his columns can be read here.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.1,193 sophomores,  80 percent of the Class of 2026,  participated in this year’s Street Week, with 66 percent double-bickering. As in years past, Bicker and its merits were a source of contention among the student body. We asked our columnists to reflect on Street Week 2024 and Bicker, more generally.
For the next round of Bicker, ditch the ICC mechanism
By Christopher Lidard, Technology Columnist
Algorithms don’t care about you — through the most recent iteration of Bicker, countless members of the Class of 2026 have felt the implications of that fact. With the most recent troubles with the ICC website’s automation of the eating club invitation system, what was originally invented to simplify the convoluted process of club admission and bickeree preferences has unnecessarily gamified the Bicker process and left bickering only as a backup to selective sign-in.
Rather than a human-centered process that can create leeway for special circumstances or catch errors, the ICC Bicker system puts club placement in the hands of error-prone and unaccountable spreadsheet acrobatics. With unpredicted design flaws, such as the inability to handle the Friday morning traffic surge or arbitrarily requiring only two sign-in clubs to be ranked, the automated process brings much more harm than good and needs to be thoroughly reevaluated, if not overthrown.
Prospect Avenue and members of the ICC should reevaluate its usage of such an opaque and fallible program. Moving towards a manual club admission system, where invitations are not algorithmically arbitrated, would be one of the first steps to redeeming the Bicker process from its inaccuracies.
Christopher Lidard is a Technology Columnist, a junior majoring in Computer Science with a policy emphasis, and a member of Terrace Club. He can be reached at clidard@princeton.edu.
Having an “in” doesn’t always make bicker easier
By Sarah Park, Contributing Columnist
Bicker, as a selective process, is inherently and inevitably biased. For some, however, that comes as a relief. Many students spend their time in the same clubs, on the same sports teams, or part of Greek life leading up to the time they bicker. Surrounded by similar people, potentially part of the same few eating clubs, underclass students naturally want to end up in the same eating club as their peers.
However, when expectations fall short of reality, the emotional stress of Bicker can be all the more taxing for students who are a member of these groups. The idea of being hosed when getting into a club felt like a given can feel like rejection from the people closest to you, even when others say otherwise. The perceived social isolation of not being at the same level or as well-liked as peers can be worse for students who were accustomed to a tightly-knit, well-connected community in their college experience thus far.
But ultimately, what Courtney Harrison ’26 says remains true: “Social standing doesn’t speak to how you are as a person and your character … What’s important in being at this university and at any university is choosing people that really see you as you generally are.”
Sarah Park is a first-year intending to pursue a major in Comparative Literature. She is from Manila, Philippines, and can be reached at sarahpark@princeton.edu.
With a growing student body, Bicker makes more and more sense.
By Christofer Robles, Community Opinion Editor
Princeton sophomores want to bicker, that much is clear. But littered in this paper, you will find opinions that call for abolishing and ending Bicker, suggesting their cultures are merely “defined by who they exclude.” Such indictments are not wholly unfounded: Bicker has been used by some as a vehicle for classism and antisemitism. But are a majority of today’s sophomores who participate in Street Week just morally bankrupt? Of course not.
The Class of 2026 was the first class admitted under the University’s plan of a four-year expansion of undergraduate enrollment. And as evidenced by their interest in eating clubs, many of these Princeton students want to join a culled community of peers, whether or not that is a Bicker or a sign-in club. This growing student body interested in eating clubs necessitates a strong commitment to a better Bicker that is defined by who it includes.
Every club on Prospect has an identity — Bicker just makes that identity intentional. With so many more students on Princeton’s campus, it is ever more important that clubs have the agency to choose who defines theirs. Rather than relying on games weaponizing free-time — like that of Charter’s selective sign-in — or filling up spots with students who may form internal cliques, anyway, Bicker allows its members to meet, converse, and engage with interested bickerees. Ultimately, Bicker allows for informed decisions and rejections that protect the well-being of the club’s members. So, while Bicker may have a troubled past and sign-in clubs are here to stay, its detractors cannot discount Bicker’s informed narrowing down of an ever-growing pool of interested sophomores.
Christofer Robles is the Community Opinion editor and is a member of the illustrious Cap & Gown Club. He can be reached at cdrobles@princeton.edu or cdjrobles on X.
It’s time to bicker—but maybe not for 18 hours
By Siyeon Lee, Assistant Opinion Editor
What can a Princeton student accomplish in 18 hours of their life? Conduct a striking experiment on the unexplored areas of quantum physics or write a deeply introspective paper on 19th century philosophy, perhaps? How about spending every second of it on the streets of Prospect Avenue, all for the slim chance of bickering into one of Princeton’s 11 eating clubs?
Apart from the plethora of issues Princeton’s Bicker system carries — from the elitist gamification of social life to allegations of classist elitism — we need to reflect on the suffocating amount of time a prospective member must invest into showing interest for a club. The most recent iteration of Bicker at Ivy, for example, where each prospective member must interview with 10 of its members, involved over six three-hour time slots spanning through the week. This obviously doesn’t mean that every prospective member attended all six of Ivy’s possible Bicker sessions, but considering the abundance of other Street Week events of similar lengths, 10 conversations at one club can be more than burdensome.
When one of the most pressing concerns that pervade Princeton’s campus is the stress and rigor that debilitates its students’ mental health, the last thing that should take up a crippling portion of their weekday is a Bicker activity. This is not to say that those said activities are unimportant — but rather, that they need to be structured with more caution, efficiency, and intention throughout a longer span of time.
With better management of their time-consuming Bicker process, eating clubs have the potential to build meaningful, reparative, and tight-knit communities all bound by a shared camaraderie. Let’s not make it more taxing of an activity than it needs to be.
Siyeon Lee is a first-year from Seoul, South Korea intending to major in History. She is an assistant Opinion editor at the ‘Prince’ and can be reached at siyeonlee@princeton.edu, or @siyeonish on Instagram.
Cloister remains unsinkable… for now
By Wynne Conger, Associate Opinion Editor
At long last, the much-awaited confirmation has arrived: Cloister’s doors will remain open due to a successful Bicker season, advertising streak, and a remarkably lucrative fundraising campaign. However, members should not ease up just yet: in order to ensure the continued survival of Prospect Avenue’s smallest eating club, Cloister must continue to pursue rigorous efforts to rebrand the club as a desirable location for new members in the long run.
Luckily, the concerns of Cloister’s upperclass students were assuaged. The effective recruitment of 103 new members has been a relief for many: members accredit this success both in part to “unprecedented show of [financial] support” and a strong advertising push. The club reportedly exerted great efforts to promote Cloister’s reputation as a “wholesome friend group,” while simultaneously disassociating from its historical reputation of being “an old boys club … for ‘floaters and boaters.’”
However, Cloister isn’t out of the woods just yet. Not only is the club no stranger to risks of dissolution, but many of the newly recruited members did not rank Cloister as their top choice. Although many of the current members remain unperturbed by the state of the club, the threat of going underwater remains present. In order to maintain membership levels, sustain the legacy of the club, and alleviate the concerns of underclass students, Cloister must persist in rebranding its current image and reviving the club as a sought-after Street Week stop.
Wynne Conger is a first-year and prospective SPIA major from Bryn Mawr, Pa. She is an associate Opinion editor and can be reached by email at wc2918@princeton.edu
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Street Week 2025 kicked off on Sunday, Jan. 26 with clubs beginning to host events for prospective members. Building on the increased sophomore participation seen last year among the Class of 2026, the Class of 2027 is expected to continue this upward trend in participation in Street Week activities.
Higher participation has expanded Street Week festivities, but club spots remain limited, lowering acceptance rates.
During Street Week, which usually occurs in late January and early February, eating clubs hold events to recruit new members. Cannon Dial Elm, Cap and Gown, Cottage, Ivy, Tiger Inn (TI), and Tower Clubs conduct a selective membership process called “bicker,” whereas Charter, Cloister Inn, Colonial, Quadrangle, and Terrace Clubs allow students to sign in and join based on various lottery systems.
During bicker, which takes place over three days, sophomores, juniors, and seniors meet current members in various clubs through a series of formal and informal conversations. This is followed by member or committee discussions that determine which students each club accepts.
“We’re expecting similar numbers to last year,” Vincent Jiang '25, President of the Interclub Council (ICC), said in an interview with The Daily Princetonian this past November.
Historic firsts occurred last Street Week:
Tower accepted 165 bickerees in 2024, marking its largest class since at least 2001.
TI had the lowest acceptance rate of all 11 clubs, making it the most selective bicker club on the street, narrowly edging out Ivy. This is the first time TI has held this distinction since double bicker was established for all Bicker clubs in 2017. Double bicker allows students to bicker two different eating clubs in one cycle.
For the first time since at least 2001, more students bickered TI than Cap and Gown.
Nearly 80 percent of the Class of 2026 took part in Street Week last year, the largest number of sophomore participants the ICC has seen in the past decade. Higher participation has resulted in both sign-in and bicker clubs offering more opportunities for students to get to know current members and insight into the culture of each club during Street Week. There are 46 Street Week events this semester.
&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;img src="https://public.flourish.studio/visualisation/21352401/thumbnail" width="100%" alt="chart visualization" /&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;Changes during Street Week 2025
These decreasing acceptance rates have prompted the ICC, composed of the eleven undergraduate eating club presidents, to assess how to make Street Week more accommodating for more prospective members.
Charter Club has undergone notable changes to their selective sign-in process.
Charter is the only eating club that utilizes a selective sign-in process, in which points are awarded to prospective members when they demonstrate interest in the club by attending events.
During the inaugural sophomore eating club panel held by the ICC, former Charter Club President Anna Johns ’25 announced that while Charter will hold 14 point-earning opportunities as they have done historically, for the first time, the eating club will cap the number of points an individual can receive at nine.
“We hope that what this will do is reduce some pressure, you don’t have to go to all 14 events, because we stop counting at nine,” Johns said.
Charter’s process is non-evaluative, so if more students get nine points and rank Charter first than there is space for in the club, membership will be selected via a lottery.
The change comes after Charter’s process was criticized last year by students who were left disappointed after ranking Charter as their first-choice club and attending at least 12 of 14 point opportunities, only to be denied membership.
The ICC is also hoping to ensure everyone is matched into an eating club, a goal initially proposed by the former ICC and Charter Club President Mia Beams ’24. Last year, the ICC’s computer system did not place a small number of students into a club.
“We are looking to require every potential member to rank all the sign-in clubs to make sure that we get 100 percent placements,” Jiang said. In previous years, students only had to rank two sign-ins in addition to any clubs they may have bickered.
The Group Sign-In feature, which allows a group of friends to sign into a club together, also serves as an option for bickerees.
This option is not frequently utilized. In a statement to the ‘Prince’, the ICC reported that during Street Week 2024, a total of five groups were created, with 25 students opting to sign in as part of a group.
Registration for Spring Street Week 2025 opened on Sunday, Jan. 26 at noon. Selective Club choices must be made by Saturday, Feb. 1 at noon.
Bicker will be held from Sunday, Feb. 2 through Tuesday, Feb. 4.
Students can rank their club preferences starting on Tuesday, Feb. 4 at 8 p.m. and no later than Thursday, Feb. 6 at 8 p.m. Club decisions will be available on Friday, Feb. 7 at 10 a.m.
Justus Wilhoit is an associate Audience editor and senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Across Lake Carnegie, a new eatery called Meadows Cafe recently opened inside the new graduate housing complex, Meadows Apartments. Open daily from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., the cafe offers a wide range of drinks, snacks, sandwiches, and sweets. As a University-run store, it accepts Dining Points as a form of payment. But is it worth the trek beyond Carnegie Lake, via foot or a new TigerTransit stop?
To find out, I visited on a bright and sunny Tuesday afternoon. From my class in Aaron Burr Hall all the way at the other end of Washington Street, it was about a 20-minute walk down to the water and another 10-minute walk across the bridge and into the building complex. If someone wanted to talk a little less during the trek and timed it right, the bus would be much faster, as would a bike — although the bike ride home would be all uphill. Without much signage or architectural distinction, I found it difficult to locate the cafe, but I eventually came across it.
Once inside, I surveyed the food. With an airy, modern interior and a display case of sample sandwiches and pastries, the cafe felt akin to a Starbucks. Although the online menu only displayed a few items, there was actually a wide array of options. Not only was there a stand of chips and other savory snacks, among other pre-packaged items, but there was also a freezer with Häagen-Dazs ice cream and an assortment of frozen meals.
For drinks, Meadows Cafe has any kind of coffee, latte, or espresso you would see at any other coffee shop, all sourced from illy Coffee At Earth’s End, a coffee and cigar shop on Spring Street and a block off of Nassau Street. In addition to these traditional choices, they offer four specialty drinks: peaches and cream tempesta (a milky coffee drink with peach syrup), berry chia smoothie, orange aria cold brew, and almond rose caffe latte.
I decided to try an iced version of the almond rose latte, which is also offered at illy. The drink contains espresso mixed with milk and pumps of rose and almond syrup. The rose flavor balanced out the notes of almond very well, ensuring the latte wasn’t overly nutty, and the strong, bitter espresso came through in the aftertaste. Its complex flavor profile made it unlike other lattes I’ve had before, and I would definitely try it again.
In terms of hot food and pastries, the options were just as extensive as the drinks. They offer breakfast pastries like bagels, sandwiches, scones, danishes, muffins, and croissants, as well as desserts like fruit tart and cookies. For lunch, they offer cold sandwiches, paninis, and salads — all of which are about $10 or less. I chose the double-chocolate muffin, which wasn’t as big as the mega-muffins you can find in the Choi Dining Hall, but it was still a hefty size nonetheless. The muffin was rich, moist, and dense, with a light, springy crumb. Paired with the latte, I felt as though I was having the most decadent afternoon snack on campus.
The cafe has many seats both inside and outside. Tall, floor-to-ceiling windows create a feeling of openness. It’s located directly across from a Meadows Apartments community center, where residents of the complex can gather. Outside, I saw people of all ages sitting in groups of two or three, chatting over coffees or tirelessly typing side-by-side.
Compared to other cafes on campus, like the Tiger Tea Room in Firestone Library or the Chancellor Green Cafe in East Pyne Hall, Meadows Cafe seemed to have a wider variety of high-quality foods that feel unique to this location. Although not necessarily better than somewhere you could go on Nassau Street, if you find yourself down near Carnegie Lake or willing to walk a bit further, try going to Princeton University’s newest coffee shop, Meadows Cafe.
Lulu Pettit is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for The Prospect from the suburbs of Philadelphia, Pa.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Access to the Towpath and the other side of Carnegie Lake may be a bridge too far for students this fall as the bridge closest to campus closes due to construction.
The New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT) will replace the span of Washington Road Bridge that crosses the D&R Canal this fall, according to an advisory issued on July 20. The portion of the bridge over Lake Carnegie will be unaffected. After a year marked by disruptions and detours due to major construction projects on and off campus, the bridge replacement signals more to come in the fall.
The “emergency” repair will entail a prolonged closure on Washington Road — a notoriously busy roadway connecting north and southbound traffic through campus. The project has already faced preliminary delays, with the start date pushed from July 21 to July 26. The road is now blocked off between Faculty Road and Tiger Lane, and will not be reopened until the project’s expected completion in October.
“It will affect some commutes,” wrote University media relations specialist Ahmad Rizvi in a statement sent to The Daily Princetonian. “But most staff traveling to campus from Route One access campus via the Alexander Road exit, not the Washington Road exit. Commuters are advised to access campus via Alexander Road or Harrison Road.”
According to Assistant Director of Athletics/Communications Chas Dorman, the construction will have no impact on Princeton rowing teams’ ability to train and compete on Lake Carnegie.
However, access to facilities used by the cross country and rowing teams will be affected, as they are located off Washington Road. The facilities will remain open and Dorman told the ‘Prince’ that Princeton athletics is working with Transportation and Parking Services to “provide the most up-to-date information to fans and visitors attending athletics events this fall.”
“We do encourage our fans to allow for extra time when arriving to events in the fall while the construction project continues,” he wrote.
The bridge was originally built in 1905 when the Millstone River was dammed to create Lake Carnegie. It now spans the river, connecting campus to the D&R Canal State Park and Towpath, which are used by students and community members for training and recreation.
A campus message from July 20 specified that access to the park and towpath will be maintained, but may be “limited at certain times as construction proceeds.”
According to Rizvi, the towpath will not be accessible via Washington Road but will be reachable from Alexander or Harrison Streets.
When asked how construction updates and related closures would be communicated to the University community, Rizvi noted that the Washington Bridge Closure is “not related to construction on campus” and directed the ‘Prince’ to the 511NJ website.
Tess Weinreich is an associate News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: the article has been updated to clarify that the bridge spanning Lake Carnegie will be unaffected by construction. It has also been updated with information about ways to access the towpath.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Sophomore Matteo Torres vividly remembers visiting Princeton as a middle schooler, though it wasn’t Nassau Hall or Blair Arch that caught his attention.
“We drove past the lake with the [crew] team practicing on it,” Torres said. “I said to my family that when I go to Princeton, I wanted to row.”
Torres joined the lightweight crew team by walking on rather than going through the traditional recruiting process. Despite finding a home in the boathouse months after his teammates, a large part of Torres’s Princeton life revolves around Lake Carnegie.
“This is my third year on the team, and I feel like I’ve been completely integrated into the team,” Torres said. “My teammates are some of my closest friends, and I can’t imagine my Princeton experience without them.”
Torres is a former News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
His path mirrors that of many Princeton student athletes who have taken up varsity sports after their first-year orientation. While these athletes may not be at the caliber of their recruited peers, they fill a crucial niche in the locker room — adding depth to the rosters of Princeton’s 38 varsity sports teams.
Around 18 percent of Princeton students play a Varsity sport, which is substantially more than peer institutions like Harvard at 11 percent, Stanford at 12 percent, and Brown at 13 percent. However, this figure includes walk-ons like those that are profiled here, and many of the other 80 percent or so of students have backgrounds playing sports. According to the 2027 Daily Princetonian Frosh Survey, 52.5 percent of incoming first-years took part in varsity athletics in high school.
No matter the sport, having competed at a high level in high school is a requirement to walk on. For example, the Princeton men’s swim and dive recruited vs. walk-on consideration is just 0.4 seconds apart in the 50 freestyle, roughly the same as the range across the Olympic finals this year.
Though Torres found his calling in the swimming pool in high school, he took to the water in a different way after arriving at Old Nassau.
“I was a swimmer in high school, so when I got to Princeton and was reintroduced to the idea of rowing, I had the athletic background to join.”
Much like Torres, junior goalkeeper for men’s soccer Sully Atkin knew he wanted to play at the Division I level from a young age. Atkin grew up playing for the Alexandria Soccer Association — one of the top programs in Virginia — and was in goal for a regional champion high school.
“In high school, I knew I wanted to play college soccer, but I also knew I really wanted to go to a really good academic school. So, I basically dual-tracked it,” Atkin told the ‘Prince.’ “[College soccer] seemed like something I might be able to do based on … the teams I was playing on.”
“[Princeton] said that they didn’t see me as part of the recruiting class, but they do have a walk-on process,” Atkin continued. “So, if I get into the school on my own, just send them an email, and then we can talk about a potential walk-on process.”
However, there’s wanting to play a college sport, and there’s the reality of making a college team. Princeton’s 38 varsity sports all compete at the Division I level and have racked up the most Ivy League championships of all schools in the storied conference over the last two decades. Due to such a high level of expectation for each sport and the lack of many openings, getting in is difficult.
“After I got in and committed to Princeton in April, I sent the coaches an email reintroducing myself and letting them know I got in, and [that] I’m still definitely interested in a potential walk-on process. And then they invited me to preseason,” Atkin said. “It was unclear when I first came whether or not I was on trial, or what the deal was.”
Now three years later, Atkin is a crucial part of the team.
“They contribute with their play on the field and with their character on and off the field,” Head Coach of Men’s Soccer James Barlow wrote to The Daily Princetonian in reference to walk-ons. “They have a voice, their opinions and thoughts are heard and respected, and they help make our culture better both on and off the field.  Some of our walk-ons have become very important team leaders.”
Princeton soccer has been at the core of Atkin’s Princeton experience ever since. “I've met some of my best friends on the team; I wouldn’t change a thing,” he shared.
Though Atkin didn’t know it at the time, his spot was secure upon arriving at campus for preseason as a first-year.
“For some players who we are able to watch and evaluate and get to know before they arrive to campus, we may know that they are good enough to be on the team, and we may offer them a roster spot for preseason,” Barlow wrote about players in Atkin’s position. “For others, we may offer them a chance to try out,” he added.
Torres arrived on campus in a very different context — his spot had yet to be earned.
“During the first week of class my freshman year, I attended an info session about walking on to the team and promptly started the process,” Torres said. “It was a two-month process of daily training and test workouts with the other potential walk-ons, where they made regular cuts until just a few were left.” Now, Torres is a rower through and through and lives with several of his teammates.
Outside of a cap of 120 players every four years for football, there are no set limits on Princeton recruiting. According to former Dean of Admissions Janet Rapelye, though, coaches and admissions officers often face pressure to limit the number of recruits due to the already small number of spots available in each incoming Princeton class. As such, walk-on athletes like Atkin and Torres play a valuable role by essentially freeing up recruiting spots and adding depth to varsity teams.
Though some teams like soccer use walk-ons to fill bench spots, where players rarely see extensive time on the field, the role of the walk-on can vary. In fact, walk-ons form the backbone of some Princeton teams.
Women’s rugby is currently competing in just their third season as a varsity sport.
“We wouldn’t have a team without our walk-ons — they have been the heartbeat of our program as we’ve transitioned into Varsity,” Head Coach of Women’s Rugby Josie Ziluca wrote to the ‘Prince.’
“The walk-on players provide different perspectives on how to approach challenges, which has our team prepared for many tests and trials along the road of their four year journey,” she added. “They also provide inspiration and confirmation to folks who are curious about rugby, providing examples of people learning the sport for the first time to earning a starting position in a NCAA Division I league.”
For women’s rugby, which hosts open walk-on tryouts every fall and invitational tryouts each spring to fill out their roster for the season, the confirmation that truly anybody is welcome is critical.
“There’s a playing position for every body type out there, and through the training and skill-set building in a safe, fun environment, you’ll learn a lot about yourself too,” Ziluca wrote.
Developing walk-ons to start — and star — on a Division I varsity team is difficult; students who were unfamiliar with the rules just a year before face opponents who were recruited to play at a high level. There have been growing pains as the Princeton rugby squad, which played at the club level just a few years ago, faces opponents like Dartmouth, who heavily recruit their full team.
But their start this year has proved that their player development model does in fact work. This past week, they notched their first varsity win over Bowdoin, ensuing a massive celebration and proving that walk-ons can indeed find success — even with only a select few recruits on the team.
Walk-ons play for the sake of playing.Through varsity sports, many of these athletes get to pursue their lifelong passions as a part of the centuries-long tradition of Princeton athletics. Little slack, however, is cut for these non-recruits.
“The expectations are exactly the same with the recruits and walk-ons, and the treatment is exactly the same,” Atkin said.
And getting walk-ons into playing form, despite their athletic background, is no easy task.
“It’s a monumental challenge to prepare a walk-on athlete to have the mindset, courage, and skill sets to safely play against teams with rosters full of recruited players,” Ziluca wrote. “But when walk-ons can commit themselves to controlling those items and show up to get better every day, amazing things happen for them.”
Correction: A previous version of this piece stated that 18 percent of Princeton’s student body was recruited athletes, but this number includes walk-ons as well.
Diego Uribe is a head Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Tate Hutchins is an associate Sports editor, staff Audience creator, and News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Each week, Sports and Data writers analyze recent athletic competitions to provide analysis and insight on the happenings of Princeton athletics and individual players across the 38 intercollegiate teams at Princeton. Whether they are record-breaking or day-to-day, statistics deliver information in concise ways and help inform fans who might have missed the action. Read past By the Numbers coverage here.
Princeton Tigers: Nov. 1–7
24 games and matches were played across 18 sports and nine U.S. states over the past two weeks. Of the 13 games where only one team came out on top, the Tigers won 61.5 percent of matches, slightly less than the 63.6 percent in last week’s games. Multiple-day meets and tournaments are counted individually for each day of the competition. Competitions with more than one event or individual results such as golf and cross country are not included in our win percentage.
This week, the Tigers won over three-fifths of their games. They broke even with home field advantage this past week, taking four of eight in New Jersey. The Tigers, however, excelled at playing on the road, losing only one of their five games away from Old Nassau, including volleyball’s impressive win in New Haven — more on that to come.
All bark no bite
Women’s volleyball broke one of the longest standing home-court undefeated streaks this weekend with a four-set victory over Yale. The Bulldogs had triumphed in 30 home games in a row until the Tigers strolled into New Haven, led by sophomore hitter Kamyrn Chaney and her 25 kills.
“This win definitely meant a lot to everyone — particularly because of Yale’s incredible winning streak,” junior middle blocker Lucia Scalamandre wrote to The Daily Princetonian. “A lot of the girls on the team, including me, have some bad memories of losses in that gym, so it was very important to win that specific game.”
“I think you could see our determination in the way we played and in the energy of the girls off the court as well,” she continued.
Full swing ahead
First-year women’s golfer Olivia Duan played her way into the Ivy League Player of the Month for October. Duan shot a program-low 63 at the Evie Odom Invitational to begin the month.
Exalted eight
Princeton women’s soccer, recent Ivy League regular season champions and hosts of this weekend’s conference tournament, boasts eight All-Ivy honorees this season. Seniors Lily Bryant, Tyler McCamey, and Heather MacNab join junior Pietra Tordin on the first team, and senior Ryann Brown, senior Kate Toomey, junior Drew Coomans, and sophomore Zoe Markesini earned second-team laurels.
Lee’s late-game lunacy
Star junior point guard Xaivian Lee scored 16 of his 27 points in the second-half in the Tigers come-from-behind 81–80 win over Iona in Jadwin Gym on Monday. Lee — who turned down the NBA Draft and transfer portal last year — sank two free throws with just over three seconds left to claim victory for the Tigers in their first game of the season.
Starting sharp
Men’s and women’s fencing open as No. 4 respectively in the US Coaches preseason poll ahead of their first competition on Nov. 17 in Philadelphia. Both teams of Tigers are coming off Ivy League Championships last spring and only trail Harvard, Columbia, and Notre Dame in the national rankings.
Senior épée Mike Bissinger wrote to the ‘Prince,’ “We’re feeling great. We picked up a lot of promising first-years this year, and they’re all showing great discipline at practice.”
On channeling last season’s momentum into the upcoming one, Bissinger referenced the graduating seniors from last year. “Channeling the incredible leadership and energy of the guys above me who graduated last year will be crucial. Although fencing is objectively individual, the captains play a huge role in boosting team morale in the face of tough losses.”
“It is also added motivation that we are ranked behind Columbia after we beat them last spring,” he noted.
Carnegie chaos at the chase
At the Princeton Chase this Sunday, the men’s heavyweight 8+ A boat shattered the previous course record on Lake Carnegie. The A boat topped a crew from 2012 by 15 seconds with a time of 12:10.95, finishing first for the day in the Tigers home race. The women’s lightweight 8+ A boat also set a course record with a 14:22.03, a full twelve seconds faster than ever before.
All in all, the Tigers had a winning week, posting a win percentage over 60 percent. From golf to rowing to volleyball, the Tigers notched many successes on the course and court and look to have a strong finish to the season in fall sports with Ivy League championships looming and a strong start to winter seasons. Check back next week to learn about all things Princeton Athletics — By The Numbers.
Harrison Blank is an assistant Sports editor at the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Five years ago, a columnist for The Daily Princetonian argued that first-year Writing Seminar should be pass/D/fail (PDF)-only. Then, when COVID-19 struck, his argument was tested: Princeton made Writing Seminar PDF-only. At the time of the policy change, a peer academic advisor remarked that the change would “[give] people a chance to actually learn what’s being taught” and a writing program professor said that he hoped the change would “encourage students to further experiment with their writing.” Despite compelling reasons to keep Writing Seminar PDF, Princeton went back to mandatory letter grades. But even after the pandemic, the first-year Princeton experience remains intensely stressful, and not all students are equally prepared for a Princeton workload upon matriculation. It’s time to reintroduce the PDF option for Writing Seminar.
The only course every Princeton student must take, Writing Seminar is a rigorous, 12-person course that allows students to work closely with their professors as they develop their writing skills to match Princeton’s high standards. Success in Writing Seminar sets you up for success in other classes. According to the Princeton Writing Program, part of the goal of first-year Writing Seminars is “to emphasize transferable skills in critical inquiry, argument, and research methods.” This makes it especially important that students feel empowered to succeed in Writing Seminar without the pressures of harsh grading.
However, there is significant variability in students’ preparation for an advanced writing class. Many students have little to no experience writing long-form research papers when they arrive at Princeton. This affects their performance in classes like Writing Sem: Research from Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis shows that personal background shapes students’ experience with college writing. This background tends is tied to family income: it has been well-documented that, due to educational resource scarcity, among other factors, students from lower-income backgrounds are significantly less likely to be at the same writing levels as their higher-income peers.
Although Writing Sem is meant to level the playing field for future years of college, Writing Sem itself is an unfair playing field because of students’ different prior preparation — and for many students, Writing Sem itself is their most stressful writing class. A PDF grading option could help reduce that stress differential between students who are already comfortable with writing research papers and students who aren’t.
As of now, all first-year Writing Seminars are non-PDF, meaning that they must be taken for a grade, A through F. Yet other colleges and universities, such as MIT and Swarthmore, have instituted programs that make students’ entire first semesters pass/fail, demonstrating that this is a feasible policy even at an academically rigorous institution. While Princeton does not have this policy, the University’s closest equivalent is allowing students to PDF up to four courses during their time at Princeton. But Writing Seminar is not among them, even though students’ first year is often their most academically stressful, and Writing Sem one of the most stressful experiences in it. Allowing students to PDF Writing Seminar would vastly reduce the amount of stress they face by decreasing some of the emphasis put on first-semester grades.
By reinstating the PDF option for Writing Seminar, students with less experience could still be exposed to and expected to produce novel, research-based writing without fear of being behind their peers and earning a grade that does drag down their GPA. The overall goal of the Writing Seminar would still be accomplished — all students would still be able to get up to Princeton writing standards through lessons and assignments.
Policies like those at MIT, Swarthmore, and Princeton during the pandemic clarify that implementing a PDF option for Writing Seminar would not be an unprecedented change. In fact, it would also help students acclimate to University life with less grade-related stress. The expressed goal of Writing Seminar is to teach students to write Princeton-caliber research papers. Allowing students to PDF the course wouldn’t inhibit this educational goal – it would allow students to achieve it with much less stress.
Davis Hobley is a columnist for the ‘Prince,’ and a member of the Class of 2027 and intends to major in Neuroscience. He hails from Rochester, Mich. and can be reached through his email (dh2172@princeton.edu) and personal Instagram (@davis_20.23).
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.For students working toward an A.B. degree at Princeton, the foreign language requirement is a core part of their undergraduate education. For those starting at the 101 level, the requirement constitutes an introduction to rigorous language study that will span at least three semesters of college. Though many students test out of intro courses and into intermediate or advanced-level courses, the language requirement ensures meaningful student engagement with a critical field of study.
However, many Princetonians cease language study after completing the core requirement. In light of a disturbing national trend of institutions of higher learning shifting away from foreign language programs, Princeton should seek to defend the value of language study, encouraging students to pursue advanced language study in multiple languages. Specifically, language classes taken beyond the requirement should have a pass/D/fail (PDF) option.
In the past decade, foreign language enrollments on the collegiate level have tumbled dramatically. In the half-decade between 2016 and 2021, enrollment declined by 17 percent nationally. This decline was only part of the more severe language enrollment decline of nearly 30 percent between 2009 and 2021. This downward trend has dramatically outstripped even the general decline in college enrollment. In all, 961 language programs have been eliminated nationally, approximately 8.2 percent of all programs at the University level.
Princeton must be cognizant of the practical implications of this decline in language study. The University’s robust language study options is a decreasingly common stance among U.S. institutions. From 2016 to 2021, universities have eliminated 172 German, 164 French, 105 Chinese, and 80 Arabic programs, two of which — Arabic and Chinese — are State Department critical languages. These languages are essential to recognizing and engaging with an increasingly multilingual and interconnected world. Students who study them grow capable of connecting culturally, acquiring knowledge of customs and values through academic work, and engaging beyond the circumscribed bounds of English knowledge abroad.
A cross-lingual connection does not merely pertain to going abroad but is incredibly important to engage with an increasingly diverse United States, where some 20 percent of Americans speak a language other than English at home. Thus, engaging as a multilingual American in an increasingly multilingual environment is incredibly important.
Beyond language study’s socio-political implications, Princetonians would be well-served by the opportunity to grow as critical thinkers and learners while studying a second or third language. Presently, the University maintains a high standard for language course rigor. This makes sense to compel students to engage deeply with the content, but those who have already proven their mastery of these skills should be able to engage with additional language courses in a less demanding manner.
Students who have already completed the University language requirement should be able to utilize the PDF option for introductory language courses. Providing this option would ensure that the bar to entry for any given language remains reasonable in light of the increased demands of study as an undergraduate career progresses. The PDF option would limit student concerns about the effects of language courses on their GPA, allaying the fears of students looking at both a highly competitive job market and graduate, law, and medical school admissions environment.
Expanding the availability of the PDF option will not undermine the rigor of introductory language courses. Students working toward fulfilling the undergraduate requirement would still be held to the same standards as before. Preserving the rigor of introductory courses is essential to ensuring a robust foundation for further study; the benefit of increased access ought not come at the expense of entering students. Having PDF students in the class will not affect the experience of students in their first language class, especially since these students have already demonstrated their commitment to the material by enrolling in the class.
Princeton seeks to accomplish a rather noble — and practical — objective by requiring students to study a single foreign language to proficiency. The University should follow this prerogative to its logical conclusion, increasing proficiency in multiple languages — it is both in line with its commitment to service and its fundamental mission as an institution of higher learning.
Aidan Gouley is a freshman from Fairfield, Conn. intending to major in Politics. He is a columnist at the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached by email at aidan.gouley@princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.Upperclass students, do you have a draw time at the 95th percentile of all draw groups where you can score one of the most spacious singles or a quad with private bedrooms? If not, you might want to read on to prepare yourself for upperclass room draw.
Upperclass student room draw will begin at 9:30 a.m. on April 11 with a two-person group taking their pick, and will end April 17. It is the last cohort of a several-week-long room draw process that began with independent students on April 1, followed by residential college draw, which takes place from April 2 to April 10.
We categorized each upperclass room currently on the available rooms list by specific room type, square footage, access to laundry, and a relative popularity score. For the popularity score, we used last year’s available rooms lists to estimate the percentile of each room, calculated as the fraction of all available upperclass rooms that were picked after the room at hand.
Unlike last year, drawing into Walker Hall is again an option for undergraduates. In a statement to The Daily Princetonian, the University wrote, “There will be no graduate students residing in Walker Hall during the 2025-26 Academic Year.”
While rooms won’t leave the official housing list, rooms definitely have the potential to be added. In a comment to the ‘Prince’, the University stated that the available rooms list undergoes “near-constant change as students accept or decline room contracts,” providing merit to last-minute research prior to a group’s draw time.
The ‘Prince’ found 16 different types of rooms available to upperclass residents this year.
Aside from the 423 singles available to upperclass students this year, the most prevalent room type was for two residents, with 136 doubles listed on the available rooms list. Doubles are also the most diverse of the upperclass housing options, with 20 percent having one room, 16 percent having two private bedrooms, 32 percent having three rooms, and 32 percent having a common room and a double bedroom.
Three-room doubles were the earliest-chosen rooms in the 2024 upperclass draw, with rooms chosen at the 74th percentile of room draw participants on average. In other words, these rooms were on average selected in the first 26 percent of all room selections. Singles and quingles — quads with four private bedrooms and a common room — were chosen on average at the 63rd percentile.
In the 2024 upperclass draw, groups wholly avoided both normal quads — quads with two double bedrooms and a common room — and triples, each being in the 12th and 19th percentile on average respectively. This may suggest that upperclassmen desire their own living space as they move into their second half of undergraduate residence.
Singles consistently offer the largest square footage per resident on average. 19 of the 20 largest rooms sorted by square footage per resident are singles. However, singles can also offer residents some of the smallest living areas with 16 of the 20 smallest rooms being singles.
The largest room of three or more occupants in terms of square footage per occupant is 1901 Hall 411, a three-room triple with around 280 square feet per person. The smallest is Walker Hall 312, with 119 square feet per resident — less than half of 1901 Hall 411. Interestingly, a single around this size would be at the 6th percentile of all single rooms in last year’s draw.
1901 Hall has the highest diversity of room types, with nine types of rooms available. Feinberg Hall has the least unique room types with eight quads and one six-person room available.
About a quarter of the total number of singles are in Scully Hall, the only upperclass residence hall south of Butler College and the future site of Hobson College. While less centrally located, Scully was the first hall to run out of rooms during last year’s draw, providing more evidence for a high preference towards single rooms.
Little Hall has the most sizable singles with an average of 214 square feet across its four singles. 1903 and Brown Halls have the smallest quads with an average square footage of around 520 and 530 square feet, respectively. Quads in Dod and Lockhart Halls are over 700 square feet on average.
Overall, each upperclass residence hall has its own considerations depending on an individual’s preferences on square footage, privacy among roommates, location, or laundry services. While a Dod quad or Scully single might be drawn within the first 10 percent of rooms, draw groups lower on the list can plan realistically to maximize their housing experience next year.
Vincent Etherton is a head Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Alexa Wingate is a head Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Grading is a subject of great mystery and concern at most schools, including Princeton, especially as finals season approaches and the end of the semester draws near. But conversations around grading reform are less prominent, and the Princeton community has yet to sufficiently grapple with the important questions of this debate. Are the systems we have in place conducive to student learning and growth — or are they harmful to those objectives? And do they constitute an accurate standard for assessing students’ academic progress and achievements (if such a standard is even possible)?
The grade point average (GPA), which aggregates a student’s grades across all of their coursework, is, by most accounts, an imperfect and flawed tool for investigating the aforementioned matters. Its ubiquity, unfortunately, isn’t diminishing, so we must revise it in order to better meet our educational goals of fostering an appreciation for (and understanding of) a diversity of disciplines, developing an open and critically discerning mind, and, yes, serving humanity. To accomplish this, we should contextualize Princeton’s grading benchmarks by providing median grades for each course alongside students’ earned grades on their transcripts. This method, also adopted at other colleges, will give a fuller account of a student’s academic circumstances, the nature of their coursework, and their relative successes, to clarify what may seem at times arbitrary and random.
Median grades put a student’s performance in a class in the context of the overall course’s performance. Their introduction would be a quick, effective way of allowing students themselves — plus employers and graduate school admissions offices — to see and compare the student’s achievements in their courses to those of their peers. Quite often, low or unusual grades can puzzle transcript reviewers — were they flukes or signs of poor work? Median grades, in tandem with corroborating documentation (e.g., on a family emergency or severe illness), can answer these doubts, noting how abnormal a student’s performance actually was. Reporting the contextual median is thus a safeguard against potential misinterpretation of a student’s grades and serves to aid both the student and those requesting their transcript.
This metric benefits Princetonians not only beyond the University, but also while they’re on campus. A ramification of contextualizing grades through medians is the encouragement of academic venturing; students who might’ve otherwise feared taking a course interesting to them — because of the chances of receiving a “bad” grade (lacking any supporting explanation) — might be more inclined to go ahead and take a “risk,” if their individual grade were contextualized. This may, as a result, reduce stress and anxiety levels surrounding grading, and help build an environment of learning for learning’s sake, rather than for the sole pursuit of a floating letter. Posting medians, then, would assist students in their journey of broad exploration, part of Princeton’s mission of bestowing a comprehensive liberal arts education.
There, too, is a rationale for relying on the median, instead of another measure of central tendency, i.e., the average. While all measures are fairly easy to collect — and indeed, many classes at Princeton gather such data or make them known to their students — the median describes the middle value of a frequency distribution of grades and is less likely to be highly skewed by outliers, as an average would be. To guarantee more accurate sample sizes, reporting medians would be mandatory for courses with, say, 10 or more students enrolled, and optional for those with under 10 students. This procedure wouldn’t apply, however, to departmental independent work, e.g., junior papers or the senior thesis, due to the personal character of those components. Classes taken Pass/D/Fail or “Audit” would be exempt as well. Below is a prototype:
Course Title  Grade   Median
Course #1       B+           A
Course #2       A-            A-
Course #3       A+          B+
Course #4       C             B-
This isn’t an outlandish or outrageous proposal, for we already recognize that it works. Institutions of higher education across the country, like Indiana University and the University of California, Berkeley, now track average or median grades — in fact, the former goes further, detailing the “percentage of students who are majors in the given course department,” the grade distributions per section, and so forth. Cornell University, as yet another example, currently uses a system of contextualized grading through the reporting of class medians on student transcripts, as has Dartmouth College since 1994.
The merits of medians don’t just accrue for students and transcript viewers, though — they also aid faculty members: recording them would enable Princeton instructors to tweak and adjust their courses, if necessary. For instance, a median grade far lower than in previous years’ iterations might not be a total warning sign, but a persistent trend of significantly decreasing median grades might indicate a need to change something about the course (or students’ quality of output). Medians would function, then, as another form of feedback on a course’s structuring, pacing, and elements — a kind of self-evaluation. And if faculty members had this data for all courses, they could check for and ensure consistency of grading across academic fields, thus monitoring for and controlling rampant grade inflation or wild fluctuations.
As Dartmouth has done, these median figures shouldn’t be publicly circulated (e.g., on the Registrar’s website) in order to deter students from attempting to game course selection and purposely pick “easier” classes. After all, the intent of implementing this design is to facilitate academic risk-taking, much like the present P/D/F policy, lessen the focus on the letter grade itself and place more emphasis on the fun and enjoyment of learning. The intellectual rewards of wrestling with, and eventually mastering, unfamiliar or difficult material should be more treasured than the final letter grade. Therefore, students should only have statistics about classes they’ve finished taking.
Of course, the transition to a contextual GPA may come with its own complications. The biggest foreseeable troubles are on the logistical front. For a case study, look no further than the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, which killed its contextual GPA in 2017, despite years of efforts towards launching such a system. The UNC administration concluded that adding extra columns to the transcript and revamping the registrar’s site would be infeasible, citing “technical challenges” and “prohibitive costs.” Still, for Princeton, an educational institution with ample resources, these shouldn’t be large issues — indeed, they pale in comparison to far more serious problems that have to be dealt with (e.g., the conversion of certificate programs to minors or campus construction).
Contextualizing the student GPA through median grades grants every stakeholder involved a win: students have improved access to information at their fingertips about their performance and are incentivized to engage in academic exploration and risk-taking; faculty can use the data to make modifications to, and prioritize consistency in, their courses; and employers and graduate school admissions committees have a fuller picture about students’ work in each course and the personal circumstances that reflect upon that work.
This humble suggestion ought to be merely the start of an important discussion about grading reform at Princeton — one which we can hope won’t cease anytime soon. Adopting contextual grading through class medians, as outlined above, will prove an excellent first step towards demystifying the student GPA and grading process at Princeton.
Henry Hsiao is a first-year contributing columnist and assistant Opinion editor from Princeton, N.J. He can be reached at henry.hsiao@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Underneath the Princeton Public Library flows a hidden brook. Before Princeton was settled and developed, Harry’s Brook comprised the entirety of Spring Street, where the public library is now situated. Today, it runs via a concrete culvert beneath the streets of town. If someone were to put their ear to the pavement of the library’s parking lot, they might hear the river burbling away beneath.
But this body of water is not contained underground. It empties out into the Millstone River, which feeds into Lake Carnegie from the other side of Route 1. In total, the river spans a distance of just under 39 miles, incorporating over a dozen tributaries and providing much of central New Jersey’s drinking water.
The river has a rich history as both a gathering place for central New Jersey’s Munsee Lenape communities and early European colonizers, who formed the Delaware and Raritan (D&R) Canal, which runs alongside and at one point crosses over the Millstone, in 1834 as a direct line of transport between the cities of Philadelphia and New York.
In 1902, Howard Russel Butler, Class of 1876, asked steel magnate Andrew Carnegie to provide the funds for a lake where the University’s crew team could have more space to practice. Carnegie agreed, and by 1906, a dam had been placed at the confluence of the Millstone and the Stony Brook to form what we now know as Lake Carnegie. Now, some go through Princeton seeing only the lake, completely unaware of the river’s existence. Others, however, have been highly dedicated to exploring the Millstone’s topography, tributaries, history, and role in the Princeton area.
Anne McClintock
New Jersey’s Munsee Lenape communities have various traditions around the river and their own language to describe the wildlife environment it supports. At the annual Lunaape Language Camp in July 2023, Munsee-speaking language teachers and both Princeton University and Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS) faculty and students gathered on Lunaapahkiing, or traditional Lunaape Lands, around Princeton. The experience included a half-day journey on the Millstone led by community members.
Among the travelers were language keeper and teacher Kristin Jacobs and her son Barry Stonefish of the Eelunaapéewi Lahkeewiit, the Lenape Nation of Moraviantown, Ontario, Canada. They returned to campus in early November for Princeton’s third annual Munsee Language and History Symposium.
Jacobs and Stonefish reflected on their experiences of the river and the importance of water in Lenape culture. “For us, what’s most important is that it always begins with life,” Jacobs explained. “Water is life. It’s what creates life. It’s important to always protect that, so we use water in our ceremonies, and it’s a whole other area of knowledge.”
As a language teacher, words are especially important for Jacobs in describing natural entities. She noted that in the Lunaape language, some words are considered animate while others are inanimate, and many plants fall in the former category. There are also deep connections between many words and nature. Stonefish’s experience on the river was enhanced by learning the Lunaape names for the wildlife he was encountering as they traveled. “I rode with Nate, who works on the seed farm. The whole time, he was talking about plants, naming all the plants we saw, so it was a lot of fun,” said Stonefish.
For Jacobs, the whole experience stood out as meaningful. “The river journey was so beautiful,” she said. “Getting over the fear of being in the kayak was tough, but there were a lot of people who were comfortable paddling, and eventually seeing people get in and go across that first little bit made it feel better.”
To help Princetonians and community members continue engaging with both the river and the Lunaape language, Jacobs suggested putting up signage displaying traditional words for various plants in high-traffic areas along the river. “They could put up signs with traditional words… and where the meaning comes from. I feel like that could be meaningful,” explained Jacobs.
As Jacobs noted, the Millstone is a life-giving force, and many are involved in its protection. Since 2005, Jim Waltman ’86 has served as the Executive Director of the Watershed Institute, an organization based in Pennington, NJ with the mission of keeping the water clean and healthy through a combination of conservation, advocacy, science, and education. Waltman has had a life-long relationship with the river. He grew up in Princeton and later attended Princeton University as a biology major, where he joined the track team and often ran alongside Lake Carnegie and the canal.
Waltman spent his early career as a field biologist in the Galapagos Islands, but after earning his master’s, he went to Washington, DC for a six month internship where he “fell in love with policy and politics in a way I didn’t ever imagine.” He never returned to Yale for his Ph.D., instead working as a lobbyist who pushed for environmental legislation for 15 years. Waltman later moved back to Princeton and was reunited with the river of his childhood.
The Watershed Institute, originally called the Stony Brook-Millstone Watershed Association, was founded in 1949. Now, the institute is working on a number of initiatives, including trying to restore migratory fish by removing unnecessary dams along the Millstone, monitoring the river’s water quality, and working to combat HAB’s, or Harmful Algal Blooms, a type of cyanobacteria which endangers both wildlife and people. Staff and volunteers take samples of the river, involving local communities in the process of scientific testing and screening for toxins.
While Lake Carnegie is not dangerously toxic as of now, it’s “certainly not pristine,” according to Waltman. “Like most bodies of water, right after a storm, a lot gets dumped into the water,” he said. In order to prevent this, the organization works with New Jersey’s municipalities to strengthen water regulation, particularly of polluted stormwater.
Although Waltman characterizes our current times as especially difficult due to the changing climate and distorted water cycles, he is proud of the progress the institute has been able to make over the course of its history. “Looking back, the Watershed has been involved in every major water law and federal doctrine in the state… so it’s quite a legacy,” Waltman explained. Part of this legacy includes encouraging young people to engage with the institute’s programs and inspiring them to become scientists, teachers, and environmental activists. “It’s a great feeling, and a humbling one,” said Waltman.
Every fall, the Watershed Institute hosts one or more groups of Princeton Community Action and Outdoor Action groups. Waltman said that he always begins his sessions with Princeton students by saying, “Welcome to Princeton, and welcome to the Millstone Watershed.”
During one of his walking tours of the “hidden water of Princeton,” Waltman brought a group of students from the basement of the Princeton Public Library parking garage to Lake Carnegie. Waltman emphasized the importance of “getting those students to see when you walk around any place where the springs and rivers are, whether you’re in hills and valleys, or even if it’s an urban environment, even if it’s underground.”
Professor Anne McClintock
One Princeton professor who has a strong sense of the area’s “hidden water” is professor of Astrophysical Sciences Gaspar Bakos, who has declared himself the only Princetonian to commute to work by kayak, and harbors a dream to one day kayak all the way from the Millstone to the ocean.
Bakos has thoroughly explored the Millstone, even assigning his own names on Google Maps to its islands and banks. On one island, which he calls “Cormorant Island,” Bakos has found many beaver dams and has observed the beaver population cycles over the years. Bakos has also visited “Binocular Beach,” where his family went freshwater swimming, “Baby Banana Beach”, where he and his sons enjoyed a feast of bananas, and “Tire Beach,” where one can jump from a tire swing into the water. “Of course, it’s super dangerous, with floating debris everywhere. You never know what’s there,” Bakos warned.
In his travels, Bakos has often found himself entangled in thickets of lily pads. At times, he has been unable to proceed due to fallen trees and branches along the river. When he reaches such obstacles, Bakos simply hops out of the boat and hauls the kayak along with him. “My tactic,” Bakos explained, “is that I usually kayak as far as I can, getting totally exhausted, and then I go back. You can probably do about ten miles until it becomes very narrow.”
When Bakos first started traversing the river, he would bring a machete to clear the path in front of him, but soon had to upgrade to an electric chainsaw. “It felt really weird when I was standing in my kayak with a chainsaw, cutting branches falling all around,” said Bakos. “One day, I actually lost a part of my chainsaw in the water and had to dive in to get it out. And then I realized maybe this was not a good idea.”
As an astrophysicist, Bakos is particularly attuned to the nighttime wildlife of the river. When Bakos went kayaking at night, he noticed that bright lights from the hospital along Route 1 disturb the night environment. “I wish they could change that because this is a prime beaver area, and there are many, many beavers here whose environments are being altered.”
Bakos also hopes that in the future, there will be more opportunities for students to learn about the Millstone. “I think what’s incredible about [the Millstone] is how little it’s known…There’s no appreciation for this long slender patch of ecological landscape,” said Bakos.
Aaron Serianni
Students have also been encouraged to appreciate the river through Princeton’s Outdoor Action (OA) program, which offers occasional kayaking and canoe trips. OA Program Coordinator Candace Brendler moved to Princeton this past May and got the chance to go canoeing on the river with a class in early fall. “It was a really lovely section of the river that is in a really unique location,” said Brendler, noting the diversity of wildlife in such close proximity to the highway
Brendler has been paddling and rafting since she was in college and has always had an appreciation for rivers. “If you’re looking at a topographic view of the Earth, [rivers] are just like the veins… they’re the life-source,” she said. Through OA, Brendler hopes that she can “get more people to have positive experiences with the nearest body of water… to get more people to understand the value of rivers and hopefully better care for them.”
Director of the Program in Visual Arts Jeff Whetstone has created another opportunity for students to engage with the Millstone through a course he co-taught in Spring 2019 entitled “A River Runs Through Us.” Through the course, Whetstone hoped that students would realize “that they live in a hidden, natural and geologically unique environment. It’s perfectly visible, perfectly approachable, but no one knows that there’s a Millstone river running through campus,” said Whetstone, adding, “But all it takes for you to explore it, and it’s so easy to explore.”
Whetstone recounted the story of a day when the class was kayaking on the river and stumbled upon an abandoned beaver dam, which they proceeded to crawl into one by one on their hands and knees. “We just hung out there in the beaver lodge. You could still smell the beavers, and there was beaver hair all over the place,” said Whetstone. He added, “That was transformative for me because I had never done anything like that before.” Whetstone was struck by how comfortable, protective, and communal the lodge felt. “It didn’t feel exotic anymore. It’s almost like crawling into the skin of the beaver to visit their home,” he explained.
In addition to entering beaver dens, Whetstone has seen wild swans and held a freshly laid Canada goose egg on the Millstone. He also reported seeing “15 snakes an hour” in April. Whetstone emphasized the importance of protecting this nature with which we are so closely linked. He explained, “If we protect this crappy suburban wilderness around us, it’s much easier to have the mindset of protecting some more rare and grand wilderness somewhere else,” adding, “To see the grand wildernesses of the planet may make you think that the wilderness you are in is not important. But the nature that you live in is the most important nature at the present moment.”
Whetstone believes that students should recognize that the river has many different histories, including an indigenous cultural history, a period of colonial cultural history, and a modern cultural history. “The river runs through all those histories. So there is a cultural thread as well as a natural thread, and we can use it as a kind of skeleton to develop more comprehensive histories of the land.”
This ties into Whetstone’s idea that landscapes are more than just settings. “I think landscapes should be treated like characters, because they’re always changing, and they’re always influencing us… The Millstone should have a name on Princeton’s campus.”
Many of Whetstone’s students were deeply influenced by the course and maintained relationships with the river after their time as Princeton undergraduates ended. Maria Fleury ’22 took the course in the Spring of her first year and called it the best class she took. She reflected, “It was very impactful for me. It just completely shifted the way I related to Princeton as a place.”
Having grown up in an urban environment, Fleury was not fully comfortable interacting with animals at the start of the course. “Being on the river helped me engage with other creatures and understand their home,” she said.
Now completing a High Meadows Environmental Institute Fellowship at a climate science communications non-profit, Fleury still lives in Princeton and continues to appreciate her relationship with the river and the D&R Canal. “To me, rivers are just so powerful and majestic. I’ve had very emotional experiences and cried looking at the river,” said Fleury.
Amy Amatyah ’21 had a similar experience in the course, recalling how it opened her eyes to parts of Princeton’s campus she had never noticed before. Amatyah was a junior when she took the class and had never visited the towpath before, explaining, “To me, the towpath wasn’t a place I needed to be for school… so I didn’t go. That class was a real awakening to learning to be present in the place where I am.”
Amatyah noted that the specificity of the course’s focus on the Millstone allowed students to talk more broadly about a sense of place. “It was never just about the Millstone or the canal, it was about learning to be alive where you’re standing,” she explained, adding, “There’s a really beautiful New Jersey, and I would say go discover it.”
Raphaela Gold is a staff Features writer at the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the Millstone River runs under the Princeton Public Library. In fact, Harry’s Brook does. Additionally, the piece inaccurately outlined Waltman’s career path. The ’Prince’ regrets this error.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Street Week 2024 concludes with 629 students being offered spots in Bicker clubs. With the Class of 2026, Princeton’s largest undergraduate class in history taking to the street, also came historic numbers. According to a press release sent to The Daily Princetonian from the Interclub Council (ICC), a total of 1,193 students — about 80 percent of the sophomore class — took part in Street Week. This is the largest number of sophomore participants that the ICC has seen in the past decade.
Street Week took place between Jan. 29 and Feb. 6, as hundreds of undergraduates flocked to the eating clubs on Prospect Avenue for multiple nights of one-on-ones, group conversations, and games. Though the Class of 2026 is the largest class the University has ever seen, interest changed unevenly across the street. This year, there was a large increase seen in bickerees at Tiger Inn (TI), a drop in interest at Cannon Dial Elm, and Charter’s selective sign-in process leaving many who ranked it first on the ICC portal out in the cold.
Based on data obtained by ‘Prince,’ a total of 1,207 Princeton students were placed into eating clubs during Street Week 2024, a figure which includes juniors and seniors placed in eating clubs that were not counted in the figure provided by the ICC.
The ‘Prince’ reached out to officer teams at every eating club, along with the ICC. With the exception of the officers of the ICC, none of the officer teams responded by publication time.
629 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs, with 578 were placed into sign-in clubs. There was little change from last year's figure among Bicker clubs, when 633 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs, while the number of those who were placed into sign-in clubs rose from 516 the year prior. Of the 629 students accepted to a Bicker club this year, 607 were sophomores.
66 percent of sophomores who participated in Street Week chose to double bicker, a figure that has risen in recent years. In 2017, when double bicker was instituted for all clubs, the ICC reported that 46 percent of sophomores chose to double bicker.
Students had until Thursday, Feb. 8 at 8 p.m. to rank their club preferences. When decisions were released on Friday, Feb. 9 at 10 a.m., the site crashed, though it was up and running again within the next 30 minutes.
The ICC's computer system failed to place a small number of students in an eating club due to this year's swell in interest. According to Beams, "The computer matching system ensured that 99% of participants were matched with a club. Given 2026's unprecedented class size, requiring bickerees to rank just two sign-in clubs most likely resulted in the discrepancy between 99 and 100%." Beams stated that the ICC will recommend that students rank two additional clubs next year to avoid this outcome.
Tower accepted the most new members among the Bicker clubs, while Terrace welcomed the most among the sign-in clubs. The same situation occurred last year, though Tower’s incoming class size rose while Terrace’s fell.
Tower's incoming class in particular rose greatly. Tower welcomed 165 new members, including 10 juniors and three seniors — its largest incoming class since at least 2001. Tower members shared with the ‘Prince’ that 278 people signed up on the ICC website to bicker Tower compared to 232 last year. While 278 signed up to bicker Tower, only about 240 bickerees were discussed — a situation that also occurred last year, when about 170 bickerees were discussed. Tower had an acceptance rate of 59.35 percent, about the same as the 2023 rate of 60.8 percent.
Higher demand from 2026’s large class and limited spots available resulted in decreasing acceptance rates in most clubs. Tiger Inn, in particular, had a drop in acceptance rate from 29.4 to 25.7 percent. This made TI the most selective Bicker club on the street, narrowly edging out Ivy. This is the first time TI has held this distinction since double bicker was established for all Bicker clubs in 2017.
TI's increase selectivity was due to a surge in interest, with the number of bickerees rising from 296 to 374. TI’s incoming class rose from 87 last year to 96 this year, 90 of whom were sophomores and six of whom were juniors. TI’s acceptance rate was slightly lower for juniors than sophomores at 26 percent, with the club accepting six of 26 juniors — about 23 percent.
For the first time since at least 2001, more students bickered TI than Cap and Gown. Cap and Gown saw 360 bickerees, roughly unchanged from 358 last year, and accepted 100, yielding an acceptance rate of 27.8 percent. All those who bickered Cap and were admitted were members of the Class of 2026, as the club does not allow juniors or seniors to spring Bicker.
Cannon Dial Elm Club had 171 bickerees and accepted 101 new members. Both figures were down from last year, when Cannon had 193 bickerees and admitted 123. This yields an acceptance rate of approximately 59 percent, lower than the 63.7 percent acceptance rate last year. 99 of Cannon’s 101 admits were sophomores.
Ivy Club accepted 78 of its 291 bickerees this year, all of whom are sophomores. This marks a decrease from 87 last year, when Ivy accepted its biggest class ever. Despite this drop, 2024 marks the second-largest incoming class Ivy has seen since 2001. This decreased class size may be an attempt at reinforcing an Ivy practice of accepting a small number of students to foster a closer community. In 2016, former Ivy Bicker Chair Michael Moorin ’16 told the ‘Prince’ that “we believe Ivy’s small membership is core to its identity.”
Cottage Club accepted 89 students, 88 of whom were sophomores. According to individuals with knowledge of the process, about 270 students bickered Cottage, an estimate in line with estimated figures provided to the 'Prince' last year.
The ‘Prince’ also obtained data on how many people were placed into each sign-in club.
Terrace welcomed 143 new members into the club, 140 of whom are sophomores — the largest incoming class of any sign-in club.
Colonial offered spots to 120 members, of whom 115 were sophomores. This represents a surge from 70 people admitted last year. Colonial's uptick in membership may be due to its early sign-in program, in which new sophomore members could gain admission to the club before Street Week even began.
Quadrangle offered spots to 102 members, similar to the 109 it welcomed last year.
Cloister offered spots to 103 members, 102 of whom are sophomores, the largest incoming class the club has seen since 2014. Cloister has faced the possibility of closure given recent low membership numbers and financial difficulties, though a recent fundraising drive raised over $100,000 according to the club’s Graduate Board of Governors.
Cloister’s leadership admitted that many students placed into the club did not rank it first, with President Alexandra Wong ’25 saying in an email to admitted members that “Whether or not Cloister was your first choice, we’re thrilled to have you in 65 Prospect and we can’t wait to get to know all of you.”
Though Cloister admitted a large number of students, its struggles with yield in the past mean that this new influx may not lead to a surge in membership. A ‘Prince’ analysis found that only 18 of the 86 students Cloister admitted in February 2023 were listed as members in November.
Charter welcomed 110 members to the club, in line with the 102 it accepted in 2023. Charter is the only eating club that utilizes a selective sign-in process that awards points to prospective members for demonstrating interest in the club, including attending events such as coffee chats pre-winter break and during Street Week.
Charter has increased in popularity since its adoption of selective sign-in in 2020. Based on the point values and eating club placements of several members who ranked Charter first, the ‘Prince’ corroborated that the cutoff for admission to Charter was approximately 13 points — an increase from last year’s cutoff. Using this estimate, anyone with less than 13 points, or who did not rank Charter first, was not offered membership into the club.
With Charter continuing to increase in popularity, but not increasing its incoming class, conversations are re-emerging whether Charter should become a Bicker club as it decided to do in 2021 — a plan that was eventually dropped. In interviews with the ‘Prince,’ two students who ranked Charter first but did not gain admission to the club said they do not believe Bicker is the solution to rectify Charter’s admission woes, but failed to conceive any alternatives to handling the club’s continued surge in popularity.
“I kind of just put the blame on me for not deciding early enough. I hope they [the eating clubs] take this as a learning experience. So maybe they’ll try to change the system somehow next year to make it less stressful for people,” Dashram Pai ’26, a sophomore who ranked Charter first and said he received 12 points, said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’
Pai is a staff Constructor for the Puzzles section of the ‘Prince.’
Olin Zimmet ’26, a sophomore who ranked Charter first and said he received 12 points, told the ‘Prince,’ “The unfortunate nature of my — and many others’ — circumstances is simply due to the sheer number of students who vied for a spot, not any wrongdoing on the part of Charter or its officers.”
To many members, alumni, and students, Charter has developed a unique identity as a club that rejects evaluative Bicker, making such changes difficult.
“Evidently, this outcome is unfortunate for folks like me who had 12 or 13 points and were not admitted, but I cannot think of another way for Charter to both remain selective and make the system more fair than it already is,” Zimmet added.
Charter was not the only club that left students disappointed at 10 a.m. on Friday.
“I’d say that I felt like I could pretty much waltz in, no problem,” Courtney Harrison ’26, an athlete on the softball team who bickered Cannon, said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ Harrison was not among the 101 new members accepted into Cannon, despite the fact that all of the other sophomores on her team that bickered Cannon gained admission into the club. Cannon members are primarily athletes.
Harrison said that her rejection from the club left her in a state of “denial.”
She learned of the news from her teammates Thursday night so that she wouldn’t be “blindsided” on Friday morning. Harrison’s team assured her that she was not “red carded” during Cannon deliberations, in which a member of the club negatively flags a bickeree, eliminating them from discussion and the possibility of membership.
Despite these frustrations, most sophomores emerged from Street Week satisfied, with the ICC saying that 81 percent of students who participated in Street Week were placed into their first or second choice club.
In the wake of Street Week, some students have begun to explore alternate options for their dining plan next year, such as joining a co-op, going independent, enrolling in the University dining hall plan, or joining another sign-in club, with Pai saying he hopes to sign in to Colonial, while Zimmet plans to go independent.
The end of Princeton’s unique and historic tradition has brought reflection and melancholy to the students who participated.
“Social standing doesn’t speak to how you are as a person and your character,” Harrison added. “What’s important in being at this university and at any university is choosing people that really see you as you generally are.”
Even though there is still much to decide, some students, like Harrison, are just happy to go back to normal life.
“During that week I just felt like I wasn’t putting my best quality forward. So finally [when Street Week was over] I felt like I could exclusively start focusing on academics as well as softball.”
Justus Wilhoit is a senior News writer and assistant Audience editor for the ‘Prince.’
Mary Ma contributed data visualization for this piece.
Note: This piece has been updated since publication to include an additional figure on the number of bickerees.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Street Week 2025 has concluded, with all of the 1,263 students who chose to pursue an eating club given a place according to a press release from the Interclub Council (ICC). 83 percent of the Class of 2027 participated in Street Week, up from 80 percent of the Class of 2026 last year. Tiger Inn (TI) remains the most selective club, Cap and Gown Club has reclaimed the distinction of being the most bickered club, and Tower has seen a near 17 percentage point decrease in acceptance rate from last year, from 59 to 42 percent.
Street Week refers to a week of conversations and social events during which many sophomores and juniors explore the various eating clubs located on Prospect Avenue. This year’s Street Week was held from Feb. 2 to Feb. 7.
In a press release issued to The Daily Princetonian, President of the ICC Vincent Jiang ’25 shared that 119 juniors and 1,144 sophomores were placed into the 11 eating clubs.
Last year, the ICC failed to place a small number of students  — less than one percent — into an eating club due to the demand from the unprecedentedly-large class of 2026. This year, the ICC was able to place all students who took part in Street Week activities, as all registered students were required to rank all five sign-in clubs, instead of just two, which was the practice in years prior.
“The Street as a whole has successfully adapted to the larger size of the Class of 2026 and beyond, reflected in our increased numbers with many clubs reaching physical capacity,” Jiang wrote.
The ‘Prince’ contacted officer teams at every eating club, as well as the ICC. Jiang told the ‘Prince’ that “the eating clubs have discussed and we have decided that we are going to send out one joint ICC press release.”
There are three systems for admittance into the eating clubs. Cloister Inn, Colonial Club, Quadrangle Club, and Terrace Club, all use the “sign-in” system, where students are free to sign up for the clubs, and the students are randomly selected to join a given club based on the space available.
An additional feature of the sign-in option is the group sign-in, which allows groups of sophomores and juniors to sign-in to the same club with their friends. The ICC shared in their press release that they saw “32 students (across 10 groups) participate in the ICC’s group sign-in feature.” This was an increase from only 25 students from five groups last year.
Cannon Dial Elm Club, Cap and Gown, Cottage Club, Ivy Club, Tower, and Tiger Inn all use the “bicker” system, where prospective members engage in conversations and games with current members. Clubs then hold member or Bicker committee discussions that determine which students each club accepts. Each student is able to bicker up to two clubs.
Charter Club operates on a third, unique system of acceptance. It is the only club that uses a selective sign-in process, awarding points to prospective members for demonstrating interest in the club, including by attending events before winter break and during Street Week.
Following criticism for its selective sign-in process during last year’s Street Week, when people who attended 12 out of 14 events were not accepted to the club, then-Charter President Anna Johns ’25 announced in November that there would be changes to make the process more accommodating. Charter would hold 14 point-earning opportunities again in 2025. However, this year, the eating club capped the number of points an individual can receive at nine.
“We hope that what this will do is reduce some pressure, you don’t have to go to all 14 events, because we stop counting at nine,” Johns said at a panel held by the ICC in November.
Charter’s process is non-evaluative, so if more students get nine points and rank Charter first than there is space in the club, membership will be selected via a lottery.
Registration for Street Week lasted from the afternoon of Jan. 26 to Feb. 1. Students had until Thursday, Feb. 6 at 8 p.m. to rank their club preferences, before decisions were released the next day at 10 a.m. The ranking window for the eating clubs opened on Feb. 4 at 8 p.m. and closed on Feb. 6 at 8 p.m. At 10 a.m. on Feb. 7, students received notification of their acceptance to an eating club. Bicker discussions generally start on Tuesday or Wednesday night and can last into the wee hours of Friday morning.
In the press release, Jiang stated that “735 students utilize[d] the ICC’s double-bicker.” Of the total 1,795 bickerees, which included double-bickerees twice, 325 students single-bickered, meaning a total of 1,060 students bickered this year. 203 signed into clubs without bickering.
624 of the 1,060 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs — a five person decrease in accepted Bicker students from last year.
TI was the most selective club, accepting 96 of the 395 bickerees for a 24.3 percent acceptance rate, compared with last year’s 25.7 percent acceptance rate. 90 of these accepted students were sophomores, while the remaining 6 were juniors. TI accepted the same number of students this year as it did last year.
Cannon Dial Elm had the highest acceptance rate of bicker clubs this year, offering admittance to 118 of its 196 bickerees for a 60 percent acceptance rate. This was a 1.1 point increase in acceptance from last year. Cannon admitted 101 members last year.
Tower let in the most members among the Bicker clubs, accepting 143 of the 337 bickerees. This year, Tower saw an increase in bickerees, compared with 278 last year.
While 337 signed up to bicker Tower, only 302 went to Bicker sessions and were thus discussed. Tower had an acceptance rate of 42.4 percent, a decrease of 17 percentage points from last year.
Cap and Gown was the most bickered club with 397 bickerees, reclaiming the title from TI, which was most-bickered last year.. The club accepted an equal number of male and female bickerees, welcoming 100 new members total. The 25 percent acceptance rate is a 2.6 point decrease from last year’s acceptance rate.
Head Audience Editor and Senior News Writer Justus Wilhoit ’26 is a member of the Cap and Gown Club and has recused himself from reporting on the club.
Ivy Club had a 30.4 percent acceptance rate, admitting 79 members out of 260 bickerees, a 3.6 point increase from last year. Last year, the club accepted 78 of its 291 bickerees, all of whom were sophomores.
Ivy has prided itself on accepting a small number of students to foster a close community. In 2016, former Ivy Bicker Chair Michael Moorin ’16 told the ‘Prince’ that “we believe Ivy’s small membership is core to its identity.”
Cottage Club welcomed 88 new members out of its 240 bickerees, a 36.7 percent acceptance rate relative to last year’s 33 percent.
Quadrangle Club accepted the most new members among the sign-in clubs, a distinction held by Terrace last year. Quadrangle Club welcomed 155 new members into the club, 133 of whom are sophomores, compared with 102 new members overall welcomed last year.
Cloister offered spots to 86 members, a decrease from last year when they offered spots to 103 members. Notably, almost 14 percent of Cloister’s new members were also offered spots last year.
Charter welcomed 100 members to the club, in line with the 110 accepted last year.
Terrace welcomed 131 members to the club, in line with 143 new members welcomed last year.
Colonial welcomed 120 members to the club, the same number welcomed to the club last year.
82 percent of students who participated in Street Week were placed into their first or second choice club, an increase from 80 percent last year, according to the ICC. In the wake of Street Week, some students have begun to explore alternate options for their dining plans next year, such as joining a co-op, going independent, re-enrolling in the University dining hall plan, joining a sign-in club, or waiting to bicker again in the fall.
However, even getting a spot in a bicker eating club during Fall Bicker isn’t a guarantee: The process has become more competitive with lower acceptance rates and fewer spots available in recent years.
Students will have until 9 a.m. on Feb. 23 to sign in to the open clubs: Cloister, Colonial, and Quadrangle.
Editor’s Note: The article has been updated to reflect the number of students offered spots in Colonial Club during Street Week 2025.
Justus Wilhoit is a head Audience editor and senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Kenosha, Wis. and typically covers Princeton’s eating clubs and co-ops, identity and student life, and the Trump administration.
Luke Grippo is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’ He is from South Jersey and usually covers administrative issues, including USG, the CPUC, and institutional legacy, but loves to write in any area.
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.This year, 83 percent of sophomores participated in Street Week, and 1,263 students were placed into an eating club. We’ve all heard the arguments for and against bicker and for and against eating clubs as institutions. This year, we asked our writers to share more nuanced reflections on what works and doesn’t work about Street Week 2025 – what should be preserved, and what should be reformed.
By Siyeon Lee, Associate Opinion Editor
Laughter, music, and damn good tacos were my main takeaways from the Brown co-op’s sophomore dinner a few weeks ago. In the warm beige glow of the bustling kitchen, I kept thinking to myself, “Why does nobody talk about how nice this is?” While I was set to bicker in the upcoming week, I saw myself thriving in one of Princeton’s four co-ops, student-run dining communities where members cook, eat, and clean together.
Co-ops are a niche choice at Princeton, but they deserve more appreciation. They offer a tight-knit community, cost nearly 95 percent less than eating club dues, and teach critical life skills — Cooking? Cleaning? Who would’ve thought? It’s natural to gravitate toward the Street when most upperclassmen join eating clubs — I did, too. But while people cite social life and community as their reasons for joining, co-ops offer both at a fraction of the price. Sure, they’re different — you won’t have members-only formals or hundreds of members to constantly interact with, as most co-ops range from 30–50 people. But my friends in co-ops still enjoy the street through guest meals, and many use the money they save on multi-city trips across the globe or even a car.
Though I love my eating club, I plan to reevaluate next fall whether a co-op might be a better option. Whether you’re in an eating club or not, you absolutely should, too.
Associate Opinion Editor Siyeon Lee is a sophomore from Seoul, South Korea intending to major in History. She can be reached at siyeonlee[at]princeton.edu.
By Shane McCauley, Assistant Opinion Editor
This bicker season, Princeton students of all class years got a unique look into eating club life through an Instagram account called The Hungry Tiger. In a series of reels, the account’s creators tried club cuisine, interviewed members and dining staff, and gave a glimpse into each club’s unique traditions.
With uniformly positive food reviews and quick jump-cuts, I wouldn’t call the account’s content independent journalism. But as a first-year with little knowledge of eating club culture, it still helped assuage my anxiety about club life. Clubs should continue offering digital glimpses into club life to familiarize first-years with eating clubs beyond parties and reputations.
Before I arrived at Princeton, I saw eating clubs as intimidating, elitist institutions shrouded in mystery. And as a first-year, attending their parties doesn’t exactly convey what being a member is like. The Hungry Tiger’s content — simple as it is — still offered valuable information about club atmospheres as my sophomore year draws closer.
While students can learn about club cultures by participating in meal exchanges or pre-bicker events, many first-years don’t have close friends in several clubs with whom they can meal swap, and pre-bicker events are generally limited to sophomores.
Unfortunately, the account was unable to film inside Cottage or Ivy, in the latter case due to a strict no-filming policy. But clubs can maintain their alluring reputations without keeping themselves entirely secret. To increase transparency about club life for all students — including first-years — clubs should take every opportunity to expand their digital presence, perhaps beyond simple food reviews.
Shane McCauley is an Assistant Opinion Editor from Boston intending to major in Anthropology. He can be reached at sm8000[at]princeton.edu.
By Christofer Robles, Editorial Board Chair
While I have previously defended Bicker in this paper, this year I am feeling much less sympathetic. I call on The Interclub Council (ICC) to investigate and publicize the Bicker processes of each club. Without transparency about various clubs’ Bicker processes, it’s impossible to know which aspects of bicker are essential to preserving club cultures and which ones are inequitable. Only then can any reasonable debate on the merits of the process be had.
I continue to believe in the spirit of Bicker: “every club on Prospect has an identity — Bicker just makes that identity intentional.” But while I, and others before me, have called for “a strong commitment to a better Bicker,” it is becoming increasingly clear that “better Bicker” is too ill-defined of a goal for a few twenty-somethings to accomplish without a commitment to finding concrete reforms.
Listing grievances with a specific club would be counterproductive — the shortcomings of Bicker are shared between the selective clubs. Talk to any upperclassman in any Bicker club: injury is a feature of the process writ large.
I call on the ICC to hire an independent law firm to investigate problematic Bicker practices, publish their findings, and push Prospect Avenue towards a more progressive Bicker. Bickerees are often ignorant to the inner workings of their prospective clubs — they are owed transparency. Clubs should be beholden to common standards of inclusivity — scandal is not foreign to the Street, and social stigma and club loyalty prevent Bicker from receiving its due open criticism and correction.
Christofer Robles is the Editorial Board Chair for the 149th Board and a member of the illustrious Cap & Gown Club. He can be reached at cdrobles[at]princeton.edu.
By Jorge Reyes, Columnist
This year, Cap & Gown was the most bickered club. As a first-year on financial aid planning on bickering next spring, this does not surprise me.
While club culture, leadership, and other factors certainly contribute to the choices made by bickering students each year, strong financial aid policies can encourage students to consider clubs that are otherwise inaccessible and impact the makeup of clubs’ Bicker classes.
For students seeking to join a club whose dues exceed the University’s financial aid allowance, Cap & Gown is one of the most accessible. Their commitment to ensure students on full financial aid pay no out-of-pocket expenses, as well as the grant provided to sophomores to cover the difference between fees and University aid, does not go unseen. Ivy and Cannon are the other bicker clubs with dues over the University allowance.
Although the rest of the Bicker clubs also have ways to reduce the financial burden for students on aid, Cap & Gown stands out by assuring that all students on financial aid receive a grant to help with fees rather than hold a “case-by-case” process like some of the other clubs.
For future Street Weeks, I encourage the leadership of all clubs to consider the role their financial aid policies play in attracting members. Take it from a current first-year who participated in the Freshman Scholars Institute and is already planning for Street Week: Cap & Gown’s transparent financial aid policies make it an attractive choice for many bickerees.
Jorge Reyes is an Opinion columnist for the ‘Prince.’ You can read his column, “No Tiger Left Behind,” every three weeks on Tuesday here. He can be reached at jr7982[at]princeton.edu.
By Sophia Zuo, Contributing Writer
While Princeton students are no stranger to rainbow-striped Google calendars, or sprinting from one commitment to the next, the compressed duration of Bicker adds unnecessary strain and fatigue to an already stressful situation.
As I witnessed firsthand, double bickerees had to move from a morning of classes to a grueling afternoon of bicker sessions, and chose chugging caffeine over getting a good night of rest in order to do it all.
Students inevitably take bicker extremely seriously — it’s a heavy determinant of future social circles. But its condensed timeline creates a pressure-cooker environment where students are constantly on edge, yet must appear relaxed and carefree in order to make a good impression.
Bicker is comparable to standardized testing: both are one-shot, widely bought-into, and high-stakes. But while the SAT or AP exams may measure intelligence or understanding of an academic topic, bicker serves to measure something as volatile as personality, which, during the bicker process, we lose control over.
It can be argued that a process as stressful as bicker should be as short as possible. However, if the length of bicker means students are performing worse and unable to reflect their best selves, it’s worth reconsidering alternatives.
Clubs could spread their Bicker sessions over longer periods, or the ICC could mandate that clubs host sessions across different days. For those who choose to double Bicker, such changes would make Bicker a much more forgiving process, and allow students to come to sessions unexhausted and as genuine as possible.
Sophia Zuo is a sophomore contributing writer from Hsinchu, Taiwan. She can be reached at sz5856[at]princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.The 2025 eating club admission process ended on February 7th. This year’s Bicker and sign-in was characterized by a record-breaking 83 percent participation rate among the Class of 2027, the second year of Princeton’s class size expansion, leading to sinking acceptance rates at many clubs. Today, we take you inside the notoriously opaque Bicker process and analyze its outcomes.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Each year, Street Week brings exciting opportunities, as hundreds of sophomores navigate the eating club selection process — but with Bicker clubs, on average, rejecting nearly two thirds of applicants, it also brings disappointment for many students.
Tower, in particular, had a drop of 17 percentage points in its acceptance rate — the lowest since at least 2018. No club had a significant increase in acceptance rate. This Street Week, 624 students were offered spots in Bicker clubs, compared to 629 in 2024 and 633 the year before. The Class of 2027, with 1,366 members, is the second expanded class year to participate in Street Week.
With hundreds of students vying for limited spots, some individuals felt daunted by the numbers. Olivia Bell ’27 held the perspective that Bicker felt less about personality and more about connections.
“Cap, I didn’t think I’d get in … I think it’s mainly about who you know, and not as much about your character and if they like you as a person,” said Bell. She ultimately joined Charter.
“I had trouble believing that out of the 400 people bickering Cap, they’ll like me over 300 other people — for a while, I thought to myself, is there even a point bickering?” added Melody Cui ’27. She is now a member of Cap and Gown.
Despite increasing interest in Cap and Gown, its accepted class sizes have remained relatively constant in recent years. While most clubs have increased membership to accommodate growing demand, Cap is the only Bicker club that has not substantially expanded since at least 2021. This lack of change has made an already selective process even more competitive, as more students apply for the same number of spots each year.
While Tower accepted one of its largest Bicker classes since 2000, its acceptance rate also dropped significantly from last year, making entry into the club more competitive than expected. This trend reflects growing interest in Tower.
Though double Bicker was instituted for all clubs in 2017, offering students more flexibility, the uncertainty surrounding admission still impacts how some students rank their club preferences.
“When I was ranking the clubs, I was thinking about what club I would want to go to the most, but also realistically what club would I have a chance of getting into,” Cui explained. But ultimately, she decided to trust her instincts. “At the end of the day, they’ll choose what they want, so I should choose what I want too.”
Some clubs, like Charter and Cap, have started accommodating for the size increase. Charter, for instance, is currently expanding its dining space, while Cap added a new wing to their dining room.
Overall, the number of newly admitted Bickerees hasn’t kept up with Princeton’s growing class size, leaving acceptance rates tighter than ever. For the coming years, students may expect to continue bickering with a mix of excitement, strategy, and uncertainty, hoping in the end to find a place that feels like home.
Chima Oparaji is a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
When I entered Tiger Inn (TI) for Bicker two years ago, it was my second time in the building. I chose to bicker TI because I felt that the club had made strides to be more inclusive and heal their reputation and community. Nevertheless, I was unsure about joining the club and remained fearful of a cold and condescending environment, considering the negative past surrounding the bicker process and the troubling history of the club. Instead, however, I found a friendly and welcoming crowd of students excited to get to know me. I had such a pleasant experience that I joined the eating club and have loved it ever since.
Last year, I was apprehensive to see the other side of the process. After reading several angry criticisms of the eating clubs and hearing rumors of corruption and discrimination, I worried that my love for TI would sour. However, I was once again surprised. There was a deliberate and embodied display of compassion and acceptance of all bickerees that permeated the core of the process.
Though my experience as a bickeree and a member has been nothing but positive, I cannot deny the truth. Systems of power are self-replicating: we selected sophomores who we knew and liked and excluded those who didn’t fit the mold. At times, this exclusion can be nasty, prejudiced, and underhanded. Contrary to the hawkish words of its critics, however, Bicker is not the one to blame. Bicker is an explicit representation of power dynamics that are implicitly present in other social groups. These toxic power dynamics, entangled with a larger American, scholarly, and capitalist culture, are present in Bicker and sign-in clubs alike. These dynamics need to be exposed and restructured with reflexivity and transparency in mind.
Bicker brings to the surface what remains hidden in other settings, like the sign-in clubs. This hidden exclusion manifests in sign-in clubs through members hiding social hierarchies: a friend of mine recently complained that he barely knew anyone in his sign-in club because the cliques made him uncomfortable. The fact that this kind of exclusivity is obscured means that it has the potential to be much worse. Clubs could secretly manipulate the sign-in process without accountability, arbitrarily accepting entire teams or friend groups, while waitlisting others. Shrouded under an assumption of inclusivity, sign-in clubs have the potential to hide corrupt practices.
To be clear, sign-in clubs are probably not currently doing (and would likely never do) something so devious and drastic, and many students join the current sign-in clubs because they are less affiliated with external power systems. However, if Bicker were to be abolished, I doubt that the egalitarian dynamic of sign-in clubs would be adopted by the rest of the street. If all clubs were forced to abandon Bicker, it would be foolish to expect Greek letter organizations, sports teams, clubs, and other groups, to loosen their grip on their social capital. They would simply continue their practices behind an additional layer of secrecy, increasing the barrier to equity.
Currently, every student who signs in to eating clubs is almost guaranteed to get into at least one. If Bicker is abolished, formerly selective clubs may attempt to uphold exclusivity through price hikes and other barriers to entry that would disproportionately affect marginalized identities. In clubs where systems of exclusivity are the norm, exclusivity would perpetuate itself whether its execution is public or private. In addition, large intersecting institutions will continue to exercise and reproduce their power whether Bicker clubs exist or not. Removing Bicker is not the answer to elitism and exclusivity. It is a symptom of a real problem, but ending Bicker would only obscure that symptom and make the disease untreatable. In fact, the benefit of a system like Bicker is that it can be improved and edited.
A candid, transparent Bicker would allow for more regulation and could create a culture of accountability. To do so, it should be mandatory for clubs to publicize demographic data of their bickerees and accepted members. This would encourage clubs to seek out diverse crowds and decrease phenotypical biases.
Further, the score manipulation known as “dirty bickering”  — inflating or tanking a bickeree’s score due to factors outside of their performance at Bicker — needs to be either actively policed or embraced as a feature. Policing dirty bickering could involve introducing and enforcing double-blind and random segments of Bicker and instituting punishments for engaging in foul play.
On the other hand, “embracing” dirty bickering could look like allowing official bids from affiliated organizations or normalizing sophomore scores based on how many members they know. This process is what already occurs behind the scenes. Publicizing and standardizing this process would at least inform all those involved and be the basis for some progress. Many of the grievances about Bicker come from the fact that it falsely presents itself as a meritocratic process. At the very least, sophomores should be properly informed by the eating clubs if their acceptance is not only about how cool they are but also about who they know. We must either eliminate or legitimize this aspect to “clean up” Bicker and set sophomores up for success.
All members should also be involved in Bicker discussions. What I loved the most about TI discussions is that we heard everyone’s voice, and nearly every bickeree had representation and consideration. On the other end of the spectrum is a conclave-style selection process where a small council conspires behind closed doors to select new members. Bicker should avoid this technique and instead adopt a more open and honest process with an idea of equal opportunity and cooperation.
Another issue with Bicker is that the power differential between members and bickerees is steep, which adds unnecessary tension and decreases accountability. To narrow this gap, there ought to be a reflexive scoring system, where bickerees score members in the same way members score bickerees. This new rating would affect the member during discussions, where their judgments would be weighted according to their score. This would discourage intimidation tactics and disrespectful practices. Trends in these scores could assist in informing disciplinary actions and address club-wide shortcomings.
Another difficulty of Bicker is that it is a high-octane social stressor packed into the first few days of school in the spring semester. Bicker should be a long, low-frequency process that starts in the fall with events that contribute tangibly to Bicker results. Then, there could be many more lower stake and lower intensity events in which more sophomores could participate. This way, sophomores who are traveling, sick, or just having a bad day aren’t being unjustly excluded. Currently, many pre-Bicker events have no direct impact on Bicker scores, meaning that they only impact dirty bickering. These events need to be a part of the selection process in a regulated way. In addition, decreasing the stress around the event and letting the sophomores get to know the club more would alleviate some of the pain of the process.
Bicker is a unique opportunity to bring power dynamics and corruption into the limelight. It has the potential to be a regulatory tool if used in the right manner. I am not claiming that Bicker is the only option for the future of Princeton’s social scene. However, it would be unwise to remove it hastily. Abolishing Bicker would only obscure misdeeds and slow progress toward inclusivity and egalitarianism. We can create a Bicker with which we are all comfortable by restructuring with transparency in mind. Implementing a reflexive scoring system and a more prolonged, low-pressure process can mitigate the power differential and anxiety associated with Bicker. The time has come for Bicker to evolve, and the appropriate adjustments have the potential to transform it into a positive force in Princeton’s social milieu.
David Smith is a senior, a member of Tiger Inn, and the co-chair of the club’s DEI committee. He is a former staff Audience creator for the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached at dcs4@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.2024 Fall Street Week concluded with 203 students in the Classes of 2025 and 2026 being offered spots in eating clubs. 46 students were offered spots in four of the six Bicker Clubs — neither Tiger Inn nor Cottage Club held Street Week events. Fall Street Week took place between Sept. 3 and Sept. 10, as undergraduates flocked to the eating clubs on Prospect Avenue for multiple nights of one-on-ones, group conversations, and games.
Two of the five sign-in clubs, Terrace Club and Charter Club, also did not hold Fall Street Week events. Three did participate in Fall Street Week: Quadrangle Club, Colonial Club, and Cloister Inn. Each hosted a variety of events for juniors and seniors each afternoon, ranging from karaoke nights to ice cream socials.
With 80 percent of the Class of 2026 — Princeton’s largest undergraduate class in history — taking part in Street Week last spring, the effects are still felt months later. A press release from the Interclub Council (ICC) shared with The Daily Princetonian revealed that 36 seniors (2.68 percent of the Class of 2025) and 167 juniors (11.13 percent of the Class of 2026) participated in Fall 2024 Street Week.
The ICC wrote that “the Street as a whole is continuing to adapt to the larger size of the Class of 2026 and beyond and that is reflected in our increasing numbers with many clubs reaching physical capacity.”
In a sponsored content article created by the Graduate Interclub Council (GICC) and published in the ‘Prince’ back in May, GICC Chairman Hap Cooper ’82 warned students of the limited spots remaining and encouraged those who were not yet placed to not remain committed to a particular eating club following the conclusion of 2024 Spring Street Week.
“We [GICC] wanted to communicate now that if fall bicker is held at all during the 2024–25 school year, spaces will be EXTREMELY limited and a majority of selective clubs will not participate. Their physical capacity limitations won’t allow it,” he wrote at the time.
Cooper encouraged individuals to join clubs that have room, and stated there will be more opportunities in the future for clubs to collaborate.
“The GICC is committed to ensuring ALL eleven clubs are viable and robust … indefinitely. We are also materially stepping up our percentage of joint parties and activities — starting immediately. So no matter what club you join, you will be mixing with virtually everyone on the Street,” Cooper added.
Students had until Thursday, Sept. 12 at 8 p.m. to rank their club preferences, and decisions were released on Friday, Sept. 13 at 10 a.m. 44 percent of seniors were placed into their first-choice club, but just 20 percent of juniors were placed into their first-choice club.
The ICC’s computer system was able to place 100 percent of students into an eating club. Earlier this year, the computer system failed to place a small number of students in an eating club due to Class of 2026’s unprecedented class size.
Tower accepted the most new members among the Bicker clubs this fall. Tower accepted half of 44 bickerees, welcoming 22 new members, including 9 seniors and 13 juniors. Tower’s new members add to the 165 bickerees previously accepted in the spring, marking Tower’s largest incoming class since 2001.
Cap and Gown was the most bickered eating club, with 90 bickerees discussed and accepting four seniors and eight juniors, 13 percent of their bickerees.
Assistant Audience editor and senior News writer Justus Wilhoit ’26 is a member of the Cap and Gown Club and has recused himself from reporting on the club.
Cannon Dial Elm Club had 26 bickerees and only accepted six new members, yielding a 23.1 percent acceptance rate. The ‘Prince’ was unable to attain class year information.
Ivy Club accepted 6 of its 35 bickerees this fall. Fall acceptance rate was at 17.1 percent, whereas spring was 26.8 percent.
Higher demand from the Class of 2026’s large size combined with limited available spots resulted in decreasing acceptance rates for most clubs. Tower’s fall bicker had an acceptance rate of 50 percent, lower than its 59.35 percent acceptance rate in the spring. Cap and Gown fall bicker had an acceptance rate of 13.3 percent, lower than its acceptance rate of 27.8 percent in the spring.
As Princeton continues to expand its class sizes, it is unclear whether eating clubs will adjust to accommodate more members, or if membership will simply become more competitive.
Justus Wilhoit is a senior News writer and an assistant Audience editor for the ‘Prince.’
Justin Tam is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ from Edison, New Jersey.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Here at Princeton, our eating clubs have big secrets. Buried deep in the records of the eating clubs are their demographics — which these clubs have avoided releasing. Other writers have argued that the eating clubs are elitist — with the most egregious example, Ivy, using socioeconomic markers such as one’s high school or parentage to make decisions, according to bicker cards leaked in 2017.
But without comprehensive data, it’s been difficult to hold these clubs accountable — it’s hard to challenge inequities without statistics. At the same time, a lack of information limits students’ freedom to make informed choices about which eating club to join. To solve these problems, eating clubs should report their demographics, alongside written descriptions about patterns in these demographics.
Not a single club reports their demographic data. However, in 2018, the University announced that eating club presidents have access to this data. I suspect that a major reason for this is the fact that, well, eating clubs are not diverse — the ‘Prince’ 2024 Senior Survey shows concerning estimates.
This is worse for some clubs than others: from crosstabs data, about 75 percent of Tiger Inn identifies as only white (compared to half of respondents in general). However, a lack of racial representation is a problem for eating clubs in general — while around 80 percent of white students are in eating clubs, a mere 57.5 percent of Black students are.
The economic data is disastrous as well, according to our numbers. Households with annual incomes over 500 thousand dollars are in the top 2 percent of the American population. For seniors who weren’t in a club, around 5 percent are from these households. For seniors in general, this number was 12 percent. For seniors in Ivy Club, this was a whopping 39 percent.
These are estimates, of course. The Senior Survey samples consist of about a third of each clubs’ graduating class. In addition, there may be some selection bias. But if an eating club disagrees with this data, it should feel free to publish its own demographic information.
Alongside statistics, clubs such as TI and Ivy should publish written statements to explain why their demographics are so different from the University average. This process of self-evaluation is essential in keeping these clubs accountable. The awkwardness of defending certain statistics could convince clubs to admit in a more equitable manner.
In selecting an eating club, students have a legitimate interest in joining a diverse group. After all, people want to work in diverse workplaces and live in a diverse nation. More information cannot hurt — it would allow people to make the most educated choices possible. Most Princetonians wish this information was available — in 2016, 69 percent of undergraduates voted in favor of a USG referendum to release demographics.
But the Interclub Council (ICC), consisting of the eating club presidents, refused, claiming at the time that demographics are private, personal information. This makes no sense. There are around 200 students in each club — it is impossible to make conclusions about individual members from demographic information.
It’s been almost a decade since then, and this referendum has died. It is time to revive this proposal — this time, from the bottom up. As students, we have much more bargaining power than we often realize.
There is an impressive record of successful, student-led movements to influence reforms on the Street. At the start of the 1900s, a substantial portion of students who sought to join an eating club were not given a spot at a single club. Due to the elitist nature of bicker, this impacted ethnic and religious minorities the most.
In response, students organized. In 1949, around 80 percent of Princeton sophomores signed a petition to not bicker unless all students got a bid — and they were successful.
In the fall of 2025, we can start a similar petition to reject clubs that are not transparent about their demographics. Of course, it would be rather difficult to gather 80% of the sophomores — but even a smaller protest could swing some clubs towards releasing their information. In particular, clubs with diverse demographics, such as Quad, could have a lot to gain from implementing such a change.
Change can happen from within, too. Members of an eating club, who feel compelled to make their clubs more diverse, should push their clubs to publish demographic information. At the least, eating clubs should hold internal referenda about whether or not to publish demographic data —  I suspect some of the more progressive clubs would support such a proposal.
When our institutions, whether the USG or the ICC, fail to look out for us, we have the chance to make changes for our own sake. That is the nature of the democratic process — empowering the people. The Street is the center of Princeton's social life, and as a result, we all have a stake in this matter. The eating clubs should say who sits at the table.Raf Basas (he/him/his) is a first-year Opinion columnist from Elk Grove, Calif. intending to major in English, Politics, or SPIA. He can be reached at rb4078[at]princeton.edu or @raf.basas on Instagram. His column, “Out of the Ivory Tower,” runs every two weeks on Tuesday. All of his columns can be read here.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.1,193 sophomores,  80 percent of the Class of 2026,  participated in this year’s Street Week, with 66 percent double-bickering. As in years past, Bicker and its merits were a source of contention among the student body. We asked our columnists to reflect on Street Week 2024 and Bicker, more generally.
For the next round of Bicker, ditch the ICC mechanism
By Christopher Lidard, Technology Columnist
Algorithms don’t care about you — through the most recent iteration of Bicker, countless members of the Class of 2026 have felt the implications of that fact. With the most recent troubles with the ICC website’s automation of the eating club invitation system, what was originally invented to simplify the convoluted process of club admission and bickeree preferences has unnecessarily gamified the Bicker process and left bickering only as a backup to selective sign-in.
Rather than a human-centered process that can create leeway for special circumstances or catch errors, the ICC Bicker system puts club placement in the hands of error-prone and unaccountable spreadsheet acrobatics. With unpredicted design flaws, such as the inability to handle the Friday morning traffic surge or arbitrarily requiring only two sign-in clubs to be ranked, the automated process brings much more harm than good and needs to be thoroughly reevaluated, if not overthrown.
Prospect Avenue and members of the ICC should reevaluate its usage of such an opaque and fallible program. Moving towards a manual club admission system, where invitations are not algorithmically arbitrated, would be one of the first steps to redeeming the Bicker process from its inaccuracies.
Christopher Lidard is a Technology Columnist, a junior majoring in Computer Science with a policy emphasis, and a member of Terrace Club. He can be reached at clidard@princeton.edu.
Having an “in” doesn’t always make bicker easier
By Sarah Park, Contributing Columnist
Bicker, as a selective process, is inherently and inevitably biased. For some, however, that comes as a relief. Many students spend their time in the same clubs, on the same sports teams, or part of Greek life leading up to the time they bicker. Surrounded by similar people, potentially part of the same few eating clubs, underclass students naturally want to end up in the same eating club as their peers.
However, when expectations fall short of reality, the emotional stress of Bicker can be all the more taxing for students who are a member of these groups. The idea of being hosed when getting into a club felt like a given can feel like rejection from the people closest to you, even when others say otherwise. The perceived social isolation of not being at the same level or as well-liked as peers can be worse for students who were accustomed to a tightly-knit, well-connected community in their college experience thus far.
But ultimately, what Courtney Harrison ’26 says remains true: “Social standing doesn’t speak to how you are as a person and your character … What’s important in being at this university and at any university is choosing people that really see you as you generally are.”
Sarah Park is a first-year intending to pursue a major in Comparative Literature. She is from Manila, Philippines, and can be reached at sarahpark@princeton.edu.
With a growing student body, Bicker makes more and more sense.
By Christofer Robles, Community Opinion Editor
Princeton sophomores want to bicker, that much is clear. But littered in this paper, you will find opinions that call for abolishing and ending Bicker, suggesting their cultures are merely “defined by who they exclude.” Such indictments are not wholly unfounded: Bicker has been used by some as a vehicle for classism and antisemitism. But are a majority of today’s sophomores who participate in Street Week just morally bankrupt? Of course not.
The Class of 2026 was the first class admitted under the University’s plan of a four-year expansion of undergraduate enrollment. And as evidenced by their interest in eating clubs, many of these Princeton students want to join a culled community of peers, whether or not that is a Bicker or a sign-in club. This growing student body interested in eating clubs necessitates a strong commitment to a better Bicker that is defined by who it includes.
Every club on Prospect has an identity — Bicker just makes that identity intentional. With so many more students on Princeton’s campus, it is ever more important that clubs have the agency to choose who defines theirs. Rather than relying on games weaponizing free-time — like that of Charter’s selective sign-in — or filling up spots with students who may form internal cliques, anyway, Bicker allows its members to meet, converse, and engage with interested bickerees. Ultimately, Bicker allows for informed decisions and rejections that protect the well-being of the club’s members. So, while Bicker may have a troubled past and sign-in clubs are here to stay, its detractors cannot discount Bicker’s informed narrowing down of an ever-growing pool of interested sophomores.
Christofer Robles is the Community Opinion editor and is a member of the illustrious Cap & Gown Club. He can be reached at cdrobles@princeton.edu or cdjrobles on X.
It’s time to bicker—but maybe not for 18 hours
By Siyeon Lee, Assistant Opinion Editor
What can a Princeton student accomplish in 18 hours of their life? Conduct a striking experiment on the unexplored areas of quantum physics or write a deeply introspective paper on 19th century philosophy, perhaps? How about spending every second of it on the streets of Prospect Avenue, all for the slim chance of bickering into one of Princeton’s 11 eating clubs?
Apart from the plethora of issues Princeton’s Bicker system carries — from the elitist gamification of social life to allegations of classist elitism — we need to reflect on the suffocating amount of time a prospective member must invest into showing interest for a club. The most recent iteration of Bicker at Ivy, for example, where each prospective member must interview with 10 of its members, involved over six three-hour time slots spanning through the week. This obviously doesn’t mean that every prospective member attended all six of Ivy’s possible Bicker sessions, but considering the abundance of other Street Week events of similar lengths, 10 conversations at one club can be more than burdensome.
When one of the most pressing concerns that pervade Princeton’s campus is the stress and rigor that debilitates its students’ mental health, the last thing that should take up a crippling portion of their weekday is a Bicker activity. This is not to say that those said activities are unimportant — but rather, that they need to be structured with more caution, efficiency, and intention throughout a longer span of time.
With better management of their time-consuming Bicker process, eating clubs have the potential to build meaningful, reparative, and tight-knit communities all bound by a shared camaraderie. Let’s not make it more taxing of an activity than it needs to be.
Siyeon Lee is a first-year from Seoul, South Korea intending to major in History. She is an assistant Opinion editor at the ‘Prince’ and can be reached at siyeonlee@princeton.edu, or @siyeonish on Instagram.
Cloister remains unsinkable… for now
By Wynne Conger, Associate Opinion Editor
At long last, the much-awaited confirmation has arrived: Cloister’s doors will remain open due to a successful Bicker season, advertising streak, and a remarkably lucrative fundraising campaign. However, members should not ease up just yet: in order to ensure the continued survival of Prospect Avenue’s smallest eating club, Cloister must continue to pursue rigorous efforts to rebrand the club as a desirable location for new members in the long run.
Luckily, the concerns of Cloister’s upperclass students were assuaged. The effective recruitment of 103 new members has been a relief for many: members accredit this success both in part to “unprecedented show of [financial] support” and a strong advertising push. The club reportedly exerted great efforts to promote Cloister’s reputation as a “wholesome friend group,” while simultaneously disassociating from its historical reputation of being “an old boys club … for ‘floaters and boaters.’”
However, Cloister isn’t out of the woods just yet. Not only is the club no stranger to risks of dissolution, but many of the newly recruited members did not rank Cloister as their top choice. Although many of the current members remain unperturbed by the state of the club, the threat of going underwater remains present. In order to maintain membership levels, sustain the legacy of the club, and alleviate the concerns of underclass students, Cloister must persist in rebranding its current image and reviving the club as a sought-after Street Week stop.
Wynne Conger is a first-year and prospective SPIA major from Bryn Mawr, Pa. She is an associate Opinion editor and can be reached by email at wc2918@princeton.edu
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Street Week 2025 kicked off on Sunday, Jan. 26 with clubs beginning to host events for prospective members. Building on the increased sophomore participation seen last year among the Class of 2026, the Class of 2027 is expected to continue this upward trend in participation in Street Week activities.
Higher participation has expanded Street Week festivities, but club spots remain limited, lowering acceptance rates.
During Street Week, which usually occurs in late January and early February, eating clubs hold events to recruit new members. Cannon Dial Elm, Cap and Gown, Cottage, Ivy, Tiger Inn (TI), and Tower Clubs conduct a selective membership process called “bicker,” whereas Charter, Cloister Inn, Colonial, Quadrangle, and Terrace Clubs allow students to sign in and join based on various lottery systems.
During bicker, which takes place over three days, sophomores, juniors, and seniors meet current members in various clubs through a series of formal and informal conversations. This is followed by member or committee discussions that determine which students each club accepts.
“We’re expecting similar numbers to last year,” Vincent Jiang '25, President of the Interclub Council (ICC), said in an interview with The Daily Princetonian this past November.
Historic firsts occurred last Street Week:
Tower accepted 165 bickerees in 2024, marking its largest class since at least 2001.
TI had the lowest acceptance rate of all 11 clubs, making it the most selective bicker club on the street, narrowly edging out Ivy. This is the first time TI has held this distinction since double bicker was established for all Bicker clubs in 2017. Double bicker allows students to bicker two different eating clubs in one cycle.
For the first time since at least 2001, more students bickered TI than Cap and Gown.
Nearly 80 percent of the Class of 2026 took part in Street Week last year, the largest number of sophomore participants the ICC has seen in the past decade. Higher participation has resulted in both sign-in and bicker clubs offering more opportunities for students to get to know current members and insight into the culture of each club during Street Week. There are 46 Street Week events this semester.
&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;img src="https://public.flourish.studio/visualisation/21352401/thumbnail" width="100%" alt="chart visualization" /&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;Changes during Street Week 2025
These decreasing acceptance rates have prompted the ICC, composed of the eleven undergraduate eating club presidents, to assess how to make Street Week more accommodating for more prospective members.
Charter Club has undergone notable changes to their selective sign-in process.
Charter is the only eating club that utilizes a selective sign-in process, in which points are awarded to prospective members when they demonstrate interest in the club by attending events.
During the inaugural sophomore eating club panel held by the ICC, former Charter Club President Anna Johns ’25 announced that while Charter will hold 14 point-earning opportunities as they have done historically, for the first time, the eating club will cap the number of points an individual can receive at nine.
“We hope that what this will do is reduce some pressure, you don’t have to go to all 14 events, because we stop counting at nine,” Johns said.
Charter’s process is non-evaluative, so if more students get nine points and rank Charter first than there is space for in the club, membership will be selected via a lottery.
The change comes after Charter’s process was criticized last year by students who were left disappointed after ranking Charter as their first-choice club and attending at least 12 of 14 point opportunities, only to be denied membership.
The ICC is also hoping to ensure everyone is matched into an eating club, a goal initially proposed by the former ICC and Charter Club President Mia Beams ’24. Last year, the ICC’s computer system did not place a small number of students into a club.
“We are looking to require every potential member to rank all the sign-in clubs to make sure that we get 100 percent placements,” Jiang said. In previous years, students only had to rank two sign-ins in addition to any clubs they may have bickered.
The Group Sign-In feature, which allows a group of friends to sign into a club together, also serves as an option for bickerees.
This option is not frequently utilized. In a statement to the ‘Prince’, the ICC reported that during Street Week 2024, a total of five groups were created, with 25 students opting to sign in as part of a group.
Registration for Spring Street Week 2025 opened on Sunday, Jan. 26 at noon. Selective Club choices must be made by Saturday, Feb. 1 at noon.
Bicker will be held from Sunday, Feb. 2 through Tuesday, Feb. 4.
Students can rank their club preferences starting on Tuesday, Feb. 4 at 8 p.m. and no later than Thursday, Feb. 6 at 8 p.m. Club decisions will be available on Friday, Feb. 7 at 10 a.m.
Justus Wilhoit is an associate Audience editor and senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Across Lake Carnegie, a new eatery called Meadows Cafe recently opened inside the new graduate housing complex, Meadows Apartments. Open daily from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., the cafe offers a wide range of drinks, snacks, sandwiches, and sweets. As a University-run store, it accepts Dining Points as a form of payment. But is it worth the trek beyond Carnegie Lake, via foot or a new TigerTransit stop?
To find out, I visited on a bright and sunny Tuesday afternoon. From my class in Aaron Burr Hall all the way at the other end of Washington Street, it was about a 20-minute walk down to the water and another 10-minute walk across the bridge and into the building complex. If someone wanted to talk a little less during the trek and timed it right, the bus would be much faster, as would a bike — although the bike ride home would be all uphill. Without much signage or architectural distinction, I found it difficult to locate the cafe, but I eventually came across it.
Once inside, I surveyed the food. With an airy, modern interior and a display case of sample sandwiches and pastries, the cafe felt akin to a Starbucks. Although the online menu only displayed a few items, there was actually a wide array of options. Not only was there a stand of chips and other savory snacks, among other pre-packaged items, but there was also a freezer with Häagen-Dazs ice cream and an assortment of frozen meals.
For drinks, Meadows Cafe has any kind of coffee, latte, or espresso you would see at any other coffee shop, all sourced from illy Coffee At Earth’s End, a coffee and cigar shop on Spring Street and a block off of Nassau Street. In addition to these traditional choices, they offer four specialty drinks: peaches and cream tempesta (a milky coffee drink with peach syrup), berry chia smoothie, orange aria cold brew, and almond rose caffe latte.
I decided to try an iced version of the almond rose latte, which is also offered at illy. The drink contains espresso mixed with milk and pumps of rose and almond syrup. The rose flavor balanced out the notes of almond very well, ensuring the latte wasn’t overly nutty, and the strong, bitter espresso came through in the aftertaste. Its complex flavor profile made it unlike other lattes I’ve had before, and I would definitely try it again.
In terms of hot food and pastries, the options were just as extensive as the drinks. They offer breakfast pastries like bagels, sandwiches, scones, danishes, muffins, and croissants, as well as desserts like fruit tart and cookies. For lunch, they offer cold sandwiches, paninis, and salads — all of which are about $10 or less. I chose the double-chocolate muffin, which wasn’t as big as the mega-muffins you can find in the Choi Dining Hall, but it was still a hefty size nonetheless. The muffin was rich, moist, and dense, with a light, springy crumb. Paired with the latte, I felt as though I was having the most decadent afternoon snack on campus.
The cafe has many seats both inside and outside. Tall, floor-to-ceiling windows create a feeling of openness. It’s located directly across from a Meadows Apartments community center, where residents of the complex can gather. Outside, I saw people of all ages sitting in groups of two or three, chatting over coffees or tirelessly typing side-by-side.
Compared to other cafes on campus, like the Tiger Tea Room in Firestone Library or the Chancellor Green Cafe in East Pyne Hall, Meadows Cafe seemed to have a wider variety of high-quality foods that feel unique to this location. Although not necessarily better than somewhere you could go on Nassau Street, if you find yourself down near Carnegie Lake or willing to walk a bit further, try going to Princeton University’s newest coffee shop, Meadows Cafe.
Lulu Pettit is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for The Prospect from the suburbs of Philadelphia, Pa.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Access to the Towpath and the other side of Carnegie Lake may be a bridge too far for students this fall as the bridge closest to campus closes due to construction.
The New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT) will replace the span of Washington Road Bridge that crosses the D&R Canal this fall, according to an advisory issued on July 20. The portion of the bridge over Lake Carnegie will be unaffected. After a year marked by disruptions and detours due to major construction projects on and off campus, the bridge replacement signals more to come in the fall.
The “emergency” repair will entail a prolonged closure on Washington Road — a notoriously busy roadway connecting north and southbound traffic through campus. The project has already faced preliminary delays, with the start date pushed from July 21 to July 26. The road is now blocked off between Faculty Road and Tiger Lane, and will not be reopened until the project’s expected completion in October.
“It will affect some commutes,” wrote University media relations specialist Ahmad Rizvi in a statement sent to The Daily Princetonian. “But most staff traveling to campus from Route One access campus via the Alexander Road exit, not the Washington Road exit. Commuters are advised to access campus via Alexander Road or Harrison Road.”
According to Assistant Director of Athletics/Communications Chas Dorman, the construction will have no impact on Princeton rowing teams’ ability to train and compete on Lake Carnegie.
However, access to facilities used by the cross country and rowing teams will be affected, as they are located off Washington Road. The facilities will remain open and Dorman told the ‘Prince’ that Princeton athletics is working with Transportation and Parking Services to “provide the most up-to-date information to fans and visitors attending athletics events this fall.”
“We do encourage our fans to allow for extra time when arriving to events in the fall while the construction project continues,” he wrote.
The bridge was originally built in 1905 when the Millstone River was dammed to create Lake Carnegie. It now spans the river, connecting campus to the D&R Canal State Park and Towpath, which are used by students and community members for training and recreation.
A campus message from July 20 specified that access to the park and towpath will be maintained, but may be “limited at certain times as construction proceeds.”
According to Rizvi, the towpath will not be accessible via Washington Road but will be reachable from Alexander or Harrison Streets.
When asked how construction updates and related closures would be communicated to the University community, Rizvi noted that the Washington Bridge Closure is “not related to construction on campus” and directed the ‘Prince’ to the 511NJ website.
Tess Weinreich is an associate News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: the article has been updated to clarify that the bridge spanning Lake Carnegie will be unaffected by construction. It has also been updated with information about ways to access the towpath.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Sophomore Matteo Torres vividly remembers visiting Princeton as a middle schooler, though it wasn’t Nassau Hall or Blair Arch that caught his attention.
“We drove past the lake with the [crew] team practicing on it,” Torres said. “I said to my family that when I go to Princeton, I wanted to row.”
Torres joined the lightweight crew team by walking on rather than going through the traditional recruiting process. Despite finding a home in the boathouse months after his teammates, a large part of Torres’s Princeton life revolves around Lake Carnegie.
“This is my third year on the team, and I feel like I’ve been completely integrated into the team,” Torres said. “My teammates are some of my closest friends, and I can’t imagine my Princeton experience without them.”
Torres is a former News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
His path mirrors that of many Princeton student athletes who have taken up varsity sports after their first-year orientation. While these athletes may not be at the caliber of their recruited peers, they fill a crucial niche in the locker room — adding depth to the rosters of Princeton’s 38 varsity sports teams.
Around 18 percent of Princeton students play a Varsity sport, which is substantially more than peer institutions like Harvard at 11 percent, Stanford at 12 percent, and Brown at 13 percent. However, this figure includes walk-ons like those that are profiled here, and many of the other 80 percent or so of students have backgrounds playing sports. According to the 2027 Daily Princetonian Frosh Survey, 52.5 percent of incoming first-years took part in varsity athletics in high school.
No matter the sport, having competed at a high level in high school is a requirement to walk on. For example, the Princeton men’s swim and dive recruited vs. walk-on consideration is just 0.4 seconds apart in the 50 freestyle, roughly the same as the range across the Olympic finals this year.
Though Torres found his calling in the swimming pool in high school, he took to the water in a different way after arriving at Old Nassau.
“I was a swimmer in high school, so when I got to Princeton and was reintroduced to the idea of rowing, I had the athletic background to join.”
Much like Torres, junior goalkeeper for men’s soccer Sully Atkin knew he wanted to play at the Division I level from a young age. Atkin grew up playing for the Alexandria Soccer Association — one of the top programs in Virginia — and was in goal for a regional champion high school.
“In high school, I knew I wanted to play college soccer, but I also knew I really wanted to go to a really good academic school. So, I basically dual-tracked it,” Atkin told the ‘Prince.’ “[College soccer] seemed like something I might be able to do based on … the teams I was playing on.”
“[Princeton] said that they didn’t see me as part of the recruiting class, but they do have a walk-on process,” Atkin continued. “So, if I get into the school on my own, just send them an email, and then we can talk about a potential walk-on process.”
However, there’s wanting to play a college sport, and there’s the reality of making a college team. Princeton’s 38 varsity sports all compete at the Division I level and have racked up the most Ivy League championships of all schools in the storied conference over the last two decades. Due to such a high level of expectation for each sport and the lack of many openings, getting in is difficult.
“After I got in and committed to Princeton in April, I sent the coaches an email reintroducing myself and letting them know I got in, and [that] I’m still definitely interested in a potential walk-on process. And then they invited me to preseason,” Atkin said. “It was unclear when I first came whether or not I was on trial, or what the deal was.”
Now three years later, Atkin is a crucial part of the team.
“They contribute with their play on the field and with their character on and off the field,” Head Coach of Men’s Soccer James Barlow wrote to The Daily Princetonian in reference to walk-ons. “They have a voice, their opinions and thoughts are heard and respected, and they help make our culture better both on and off the field.  Some of our walk-ons have become very important team leaders.”
Princeton soccer has been at the core of Atkin’s Princeton experience ever since. “I've met some of my best friends on the team; I wouldn’t change a thing,” he shared.
Though Atkin didn’t know it at the time, his spot was secure upon arriving at campus for preseason as a first-year.
“For some players who we are able to watch and evaluate and get to know before they arrive to campus, we may know that they are good enough to be on the team, and we may offer them a roster spot for preseason,” Barlow wrote about players in Atkin’s position. “For others, we may offer them a chance to try out,” he added.
Torres arrived on campus in a very different context — his spot had yet to be earned.
“During the first week of class my freshman year, I attended an info session about walking on to the team and promptly started the process,” Torres said. “It was a two-month process of daily training and test workouts with the other potential walk-ons, where they made regular cuts until just a few were left.” Now, Torres is a rower through and through and lives with several of his teammates.
Outside of a cap of 120 players every four years for football, there are no set limits on Princeton recruiting. According to former Dean of Admissions Janet Rapelye, though, coaches and admissions officers often face pressure to limit the number of recruits due to the already small number of spots available in each incoming Princeton class. As such, walk-on athletes like Atkin and Torres play a valuable role by essentially freeing up recruiting spots and adding depth to varsity teams.
Though some teams like soccer use walk-ons to fill bench spots, where players rarely see extensive time on the field, the role of the walk-on can vary. In fact, walk-ons form the backbone of some Princeton teams.
Women’s rugby is currently competing in just their third season as a varsity sport.
“We wouldn’t have a team without our walk-ons — they have been the heartbeat of our program as we’ve transitioned into Varsity,” Head Coach of Women’s Rugby Josie Ziluca wrote to the ‘Prince.’
“The walk-on players provide different perspectives on how to approach challenges, which has our team prepared for many tests and trials along the road of their four year journey,” she added. “They also provide inspiration and confirmation to folks who are curious about rugby, providing examples of people learning the sport for the first time to earning a starting position in a NCAA Division I league.”
For women’s rugby, which hosts open walk-on tryouts every fall and invitational tryouts each spring to fill out their roster for the season, the confirmation that truly anybody is welcome is critical.
“There’s a playing position for every body type out there, and through the training and skill-set building in a safe, fun environment, you’ll learn a lot about yourself too,” Ziluca wrote.
Developing walk-ons to start — and star — on a Division I varsity team is difficult; students who were unfamiliar with the rules just a year before face opponents who were recruited to play at a high level. There have been growing pains as the Princeton rugby squad, which played at the club level just a few years ago, faces opponents like Dartmouth, who heavily recruit their full team.
But their start this year has proved that their player development model does in fact work. This past week, they notched their first varsity win over Bowdoin, ensuing a massive celebration and proving that walk-ons can indeed find success — even with only a select few recruits on the team.
Walk-ons play for the sake of playing.Through varsity sports, many of these athletes get to pursue their lifelong passions as a part of the centuries-long tradition of Princeton athletics. Little slack, however, is cut for these non-recruits.
“The expectations are exactly the same with the recruits and walk-ons, and the treatment is exactly the same,” Atkin said.
And getting walk-ons into playing form, despite their athletic background, is no easy task.
“It’s a monumental challenge to prepare a walk-on athlete to have the mindset, courage, and skill sets to safely play against teams with rosters full of recruited players,” Ziluca wrote. “But when walk-ons can commit themselves to controlling those items and show up to get better every day, amazing things happen for them.”
Correction: A previous version of this piece stated that 18 percent of Princeton’s student body was recruited athletes, but this number includes walk-ons as well.
Diego Uribe is a head Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’
Tate Hutchins is an associate Sports editor, staff Audience creator, and News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Each week, Sports and Data writers analyze recent athletic competitions to provide analysis and insight on the happenings of Princeton athletics and individual players across the 38 intercollegiate teams at Princeton. Whether they are record-breaking or day-to-day, statistics deliver information in concise ways and help inform fans who might have missed the action. Read past By the Numbers coverage here.
Princeton Tigers: Nov. 1–7
24 games and matches were played across 18 sports and nine U.S. states over the past two weeks. Of the 13 games where only one team came out on top, the Tigers won 61.5 percent of matches, slightly less than the 63.6 percent in last week’s games. Multiple-day meets and tournaments are counted individually for each day of the competition. Competitions with more than one event or individual results such as golf and cross country are not included in our win percentage.
This week, the Tigers won over three-fifths of their games. They broke even with home field advantage this past week, taking four of eight in New Jersey. The Tigers, however, excelled at playing on the road, losing only one of their five games away from Old Nassau, including volleyball’s impressive win in New Haven — more on that to come.
All bark no bite
Women’s volleyball broke one of the longest standing home-court undefeated streaks this weekend with a four-set victory over Yale. The Bulldogs had triumphed in 30 home games in a row until the Tigers strolled into New Haven, led by sophomore hitter Kamyrn Chaney and her 25 kills.
“This win definitely meant a lot to everyone — particularly because of Yale’s incredible winning streak,” junior middle blocker Lucia Scalamandre wrote to The Daily Princetonian. “A lot of the girls on the team, including me, have some bad memories of losses in that gym, so it was very important to win that specific game.”
“I think you could see our determination in the way we played and in the energy of the girls off the court as well,” she continued.
Full swing ahead
First-year women’s golfer Olivia Duan played her way into the Ivy League Player of the Month for October. Duan shot a program-low 63 at the Evie Odom Invitational to begin the month.
Exalted eight
Princeton women’s soccer, recent Ivy League regular season champions and hosts of this weekend’s conference tournament, boasts eight All-Ivy honorees this season. Seniors Lily Bryant, Tyler McCamey, and Heather MacNab join junior Pietra Tordin on the first team, and senior Ryann Brown, senior Kate Toomey, junior Drew Coomans, and sophomore Zoe Markesini earned second-team laurels.
Lee’s late-game lunacy
Star junior point guard Xaivian Lee scored 16 of his 27 points in the second-half in the Tigers come-from-behind 81–80 win over Iona in Jadwin Gym on Monday. Lee — who turned down the NBA Draft and transfer portal last year — sank two free throws with just over three seconds left to claim victory for the Tigers in their first game of the season.
Starting sharp
Men’s and women’s fencing open as No. 4 respectively in the US Coaches preseason poll ahead of their first competition on Nov. 17 in Philadelphia. Both teams of Tigers are coming off Ivy League Championships last spring and only trail Harvard, Columbia, and Notre Dame in the national rankings.
Senior épée Mike Bissinger wrote to the ‘Prince,’ “We’re feeling great. We picked up a lot of promising first-years this year, and they’re all showing great discipline at practice.”
On channeling last season’s momentum into the upcoming one, Bissinger referenced the graduating seniors from last year. “Channeling the incredible leadership and energy of the guys above me who graduated last year will be crucial. Although fencing is objectively individual, the captains play a huge role in boosting team morale in the face of tough losses.”
“It is also added motivation that we are ranked behind Columbia after we beat them last spring,” he noted.
Carnegie chaos at the chase
At the Princeton Chase this Sunday, the men’s heavyweight 8+ A boat shattered the previous course record on Lake Carnegie. The A boat topped a crew from 2012 by 15 seconds with a time of 12:10.95, finishing first for the day in the Tigers home race. The women’s lightweight 8+ A boat also set a course record with a 14:22.03, a full twelve seconds faster than ever before.
All in all, the Tigers had a winning week, posting a win percentage over 60 percent. From golf to rowing to volleyball, the Tigers notched many successes on the course and court and look to have a strong finish to the season in fall sports with Ivy League championships looming and a strong start to winter seasons. Check back next week to learn about all things Princeton Athletics — By The Numbers.
Harrison Blank is an assistant Sports editor at the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Five years ago, a columnist for The Daily Princetonian argued that first-year Writing Seminar should be pass/D/fail (PDF)-only. Then, when COVID-19 struck, his argument was tested: Princeton made Writing Seminar PDF-only. At the time of the policy change, a peer academic advisor remarked that the change would “[give] people a chance to actually learn what’s being taught” and a writing program professor said that he hoped the change would “encourage students to further experiment with their writing.” Despite compelling reasons to keep Writing Seminar PDF, Princeton went back to mandatory letter grades. But even after the pandemic, the first-year Princeton experience remains intensely stressful, and not all students are equally prepared for a Princeton workload upon matriculation. It’s time to reintroduce the PDF option for Writing Seminar.
The only course every Princeton student must take, Writing Seminar is a rigorous, 12-person course that allows students to work closely with their professors as they develop their writing skills to match Princeton’s high standards. Success in Writing Seminar sets you up for success in other classes. According to the Princeton Writing Program, part of the goal of first-year Writing Seminars is “to emphasize transferable skills in critical inquiry, argument, and research methods.” This makes it especially important that students feel empowered to succeed in Writing Seminar without the pressures of harsh grading.
However, there is significant variability in students’ preparation for an advanced writing class. Many students have little to no experience writing long-form research papers when they arrive at Princeton. This affects their performance in classes like Writing Sem: Research from Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis shows that personal background shapes students’ experience with college writing. This background tends is tied to family income: it has been well-documented that, due to educational resource scarcity, among other factors, students from lower-income backgrounds are significantly less likely to be at the same writing levels as their higher-income peers.
Although Writing Sem is meant to level the playing field for future years of college, Writing Sem itself is an unfair playing field because of students’ different prior preparation — and for many students, Writing Sem itself is their most stressful writing class. A PDF grading option could help reduce that stress differential between students who are already comfortable with writing research papers and students who aren’t.
As of now, all first-year Writing Seminars are non-PDF, meaning that they must be taken for a grade, A through F. Yet other colleges and universities, such as MIT and Swarthmore, have instituted programs that make students’ entire first semesters pass/fail, demonstrating that this is a feasible policy even at an academically rigorous institution. While Princeton does not have this policy, the University’s closest equivalent is allowing students to PDF up to four courses during their time at Princeton. But Writing Seminar is not among them, even though students’ first year is often their most academically stressful, and Writing Sem one of the most stressful experiences in it. Allowing students to PDF Writing Seminar would vastly reduce the amount of stress they face by decreasing some of the emphasis put on first-semester grades.
By reinstating the PDF option for Writing Seminar, students with less experience could still be exposed to and expected to produce novel, research-based writing without fear of being behind their peers and earning a grade that does drag down their GPA. The overall goal of the Writing Seminar would still be accomplished — all students would still be able to get up to Princeton writing standards through lessons and assignments.
Policies like those at MIT, Swarthmore, and Princeton during the pandemic clarify that implementing a PDF option for Writing Seminar would not be an unprecedented change. In fact, it would also help students acclimate to University life with less grade-related stress. The expressed goal of Writing Seminar is to teach students to write Princeton-caliber research papers. Allowing students to PDF the course wouldn’t inhibit this educational goal – it would allow students to achieve it with much less stress.
Davis Hobley is a columnist for the ‘Prince,’ and a member of the Class of 2027 and intends to major in Neuroscience. He hails from Rochester, Mich. and can be reached through his email (dh2172@princeton.edu) and personal Instagram (@davis_20.23).
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.For students working toward an A.B. degree at Princeton, the foreign language requirement is a core part of their undergraduate education. For those starting at the 101 level, the requirement constitutes an introduction to rigorous language study that will span at least three semesters of college. Though many students test out of intro courses and into intermediate or advanced-level courses, the language requirement ensures meaningful student engagement with a critical field of study.
However, many Princetonians cease language study after completing the core requirement. In light of a disturbing national trend of institutions of higher learning shifting away from foreign language programs, Princeton should seek to defend the value of language study, encouraging students to pursue advanced language study in multiple languages. Specifically, language classes taken beyond the requirement should have a pass/D/fail (PDF) option.
In the past decade, foreign language enrollments on the collegiate level have tumbled dramatically. In the half-decade between 2016 and 2021, enrollment declined by 17 percent nationally. This decline was only part of the more severe language enrollment decline of nearly 30 percent between 2009 and 2021. This downward trend has dramatically outstripped even the general decline in college enrollment. In all, 961 language programs have been eliminated nationally, approximately 8.2 percent of all programs at the University level.
Princeton must be cognizant of the practical implications of this decline in language study. The University’s robust language study options is a decreasingly common stance among U.S. institutions. From 2016 to 2021, universities have eliminated 172 German, 164 French, 105 Chinese, and 80 Arabic programs, two of which — Arabic and Chinese — are State Department critical languages. These languages are essential to recognizing and engaging with an increasingly multilingual and interconnected world. Students who study them grow capable of connecting culturally, acquiring knowledge of customs and values through academic work, and engaging beyond the circumscribed bounds of English knowledge abroad.
A cross-lingual connection does not merely pertain to going abroad but is incredibly important to engage with an increasingly diverse United States, where some 20 percent of Americans speak a language other than English at home. Thus, engaging as a multilingual American in an increasingly multilingual environment is incredibly important.
Beyond language study’s socio-political implications, Princetonians would be well-served by the opportunity to grow as critical thinkers and learners while studying a second or third language. Presently, the University maintains a high standard for language course rigor. This makes sense to compel students to engage deeply with the content, but those who have already proven their mastery of these skills should be able to engage with additional language courses in a less demanding manner.
Students who have already completed the University language requirement should be able to utilize the PDF option for introductory language courses. Providing this option would ensure that the bar to entry for any given language remains reasonable in light of the increased demands of study as an undergraduate career progresses. The PDF option would limit student concerns about the effects of language courses on their GPA, allaying the fears of students looking at both a highly competitive job market and graduate, law, and medical school admissions environment.
Expanding the availability of the PDF option will not undermine the rigor of introductory language courses. Students working toward fulfilling the undergraduate requirement would still be held to the same standards as before. Preserving the rigor of introductory courses is essential to ensuring a robust foundation for further study; the benefit of increased access ought not come at the expense of entering students. Having PDF students in the class will not affect the experience of students in their first language class, especially since these students have already demonstrated their commitment to the material by enrolling in the class.
Princeton seeks to accomplish a rather noble — and practical — objective by requiring students to study a single foreign language to proficiency. The University should follow this prerogative to its logical conclusion, increasing proficiency in multiple languages — it is both in line with its commitment to service and its fundamental mission as an institution of higher learning.
Aidan Gouley is a freshman from Fairfield, Conn. intending to major in Politics. He is a columnist at the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached by email at aidan.gouley@princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.Upperclass students, do you have a draw time at the 95th percentile of all draw groups where you can score one of the most spacious singles or a quad with private bedrooms? If not, you might want to read on to prepare yourself for upperclass room draw.
Upperclass student room draw will begin at 9:30 a.m. on April 11 with a two-person group taking their pick, and will end April 17. It is the last cohort of a several-week-long room draw process that began with independent students on April 1, followed by residential college draw, which takes place from April 2 to April 10.
We categorized each upperclass room currently on the available rooms list by specific room type, square footage, access to laundry, and a relative popularity score. For the popularity score, we used last year’s available rooms lists to estimate the percentile of each room, calculated as the fraction of all available upperclass rooms that were picked after the room at hand.
Unlike last year, drawing into Walker Hall is again an option for undergraduates. In a statement to The Daily Princetonian, the University wrote, “There will be no graduate students residing in Walker Hall during the 2025-26 Academic Year.”
While rooms won’t leave the official housing list, rooms definitely have the potential to be added. In a comment to the ‘Prince’, the University stated that the available rooms list undergoes “near-constant change as students accept or decline room contracts,” providing merit to last-minute research prior to a group’s draw time.
The ‘Prince’ found 16 different types of rooms available to upperclass residents this year.
Aside from the 423 singles available to upperclass students this year, the most prevalent room type was for two residents, with 136 doubles listed on the available rooms list. Doubles are also the most diverse of the upperclass housing options, with 20 percent having one room, 16 percent having two private bedrooms, 32 percent having three rooms, and 32 percent having a common room and a double bedroom.
Three-room doubles were the earliest-chosen rooms in the 2024 upperclass draw, with rooms chosen at the 74th percentile of room draw participants on average. In other words, these rooms were on average selected in the first 26 percent of all room selections. Singles and quingles — quads with four private bedrooms and a common room — were chosen on average at the 63rd percentile.
In the 2024 upperclass draw, groups wholly avoided both normal quads — quads with two double bedrooms and a common room — and triples, each being in the 12th and 19th percentile on average respectively. This may suggest that upperclassmen desire their own living space as they move into their second half of undergraduate residence.
Singles consistently offer the largest square footage per resident on average. 19 of the 20 largest rooms sorted by square footage per resident are singles. However, singles can also offer residents some of the smallest living areas with 16 of the 20 smallest rooms being singles.
The largest room of three or more occupants in terms of square footage per occupant is 1901 Hall 411, a three-room triple with around 280 square feet per person. The smallest is Walker Hall 312, with 119 square feet per resident — less than half of 1901 Hall 411. Interestingly, a single around this size would be at the 6th percentile of all single rooms in last year’s draw.
1901 Hall has the highest diversity of room types, with nine types of rooms available. Feinberg Hall has the least unique room types with eight quads and one six-person room available.
About a quarter of the total number of singles are in Scully Hall, the only upperclass residence hall south of Butler College and the future site of Hobson College. While less centrally located, Scully was the first hall to run out of rooms during last year’s draw, providing more evidence for a high preference towards single rooms.
Little Hall has the most sizable singles with an average of 214 square feet across its four singles. 1903 and Brown Halls have the smallest quads with an average square footage of around 520 and 530 square feet, respectively. Quads in Dod and Lockhart Halls are over 700 square feet on average.
Overall, each upperclass residence hall has its own considerations depending on an individual’s preferences on square footage, privacy among roommates, location, or laundry services. While a Dod quad or Scully single might be drawn within the first 10 percent of rooms, draw groups lower on the list can plan realistically to maximize their housing experience next year.
Vincent Etherton is a head Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Alexa Wingate is a head Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Grading is a subject of great mystery and concern at most schools, including Princeton, especially as finals season approaches and the end of the semester draws near. But conversations around grading reform are less prominent, and the Princeton community has yet to sufficiently grapple with the important questions of this debate. Are the systems we have in place conducive to student learning and growth — or are they harmful to those objectives? And do they constitute an accurate standard for assessing students’ academic progress and achievements (if such a standard is even possible)?
The grade point average (GPA), which aggregates a student’s grades across all of their coursework, is, by most accounts, an imperfect and flawed tool for investigating the aforementioned matters. Its ubiquity, unfortunately, isn’t diminishing, so we must revise it in order to better meet our educational goals of fostering an appreciation for (and understanding of) a diversity of disciplines, developing an open and critically discerning mind, and, yes, serving humanity. To accomplish this, we should contextualize Princeton’s grading benchmarks by providing median grades for each course alongside students’ earned grades on their transcripts. This method, also adopted at other colleges, will give a fuller account of a student’s academic circumstances, the nature of their coursework, and their relative successes, to clarify what may seem at times arbitrary and random.
Median grades put a student’s performance in a class in the context of the overall course’s performance. Their introduction would be a quick, effective way of allowing students themselves — plus employers and graduate school admissions offices — to see and compare the student’s achievements in their courses to those of their peers. Quite often, low or unusual grades can puzzle transcript reviewers — were they flukes or signs of poor work? Median grades, in tandem with corroborating documentation (e.g., on a family emergency or severe illness), can answer these doubts, noting how abnormal a student’s performance actually was. Reporting the contextual median is thus a safeguard against potential misinterpretation of a student’s grades and serves to aid both the student and those requesting their transcript.
This metric benefits Princetonians not only beyond the University, but also while they’re on campus. A ramification of contextualizing grades through medians is the encouragement of academic venturing; students who might’ve otherwise feared taking a course interesting to them — because of the chances of receiving a “bad” grade (lacking any supporting explanation) — might be more inclined to go ahead and take a “risk,” if their individual grade were contextualized. This may, as a result, reduce stress and anxiety levels surrounding grading, and help build an environment of learning for learning’s sake, rather than for the sole pursuit of a floating letter. Posting medians, then, would assist students in their journey of broad exploration, part of Princeton’s mission of bestowing a comprehensive liberal arts education.
There, too, is a rationale for relying on the median, instead of another measure of central tendency, i.e., the average. While all measures are fairly easy to collect — and indeed, many classes at Princeton gather such data or make them known to their students — the median describes the middle value of a frequency distribution of grades and is less likely to be highly skewed by outliers, as an average would be. To guarantee more accurate sample sizes, reporting medians would be mandatory for courses with, say, 10 or more students enrolled, and optional for those with under 10 students. This procedure wouldn’t apply, however, to departmental independent work, e.g., junior papers or the senior thesis, due to the personal character of those components. Classes taken Pass/D/Fail or “Audit” would be exempt as well. Below is a prototype:
Course Title  Grade   Median
Course #1       B+           A
Course #2       A-            A-
Course #3       A+          B+
Course #4       C             B-
This isn’t an outlandish or outrageous proposal, for we already recognize that it works. Institutions of higher education across the country, like Indiana University and the University of California, Berkeley, now track average or median grades — in fact, the former goes further, detailing the “percentage of students who are majors in the given course department,” the grade distributions per section, and so forth. Cornell University, as yet another example, currently uses a system of contextualized grading through the reporting of class medians on student transcripts, as has Dartmouth College since 1994.
The merits of medians don’t just accrue for students and transcript viewers, though — they also aid faculty members: recording them would enable Princeton instructors to tweak and adjust their courses, if necessary. For instance, a median grade far lower than in previous years’ iterations might not be a total warning sign, but a persistent trend of significantly decreasing median grades might indicate a need to change something about the course (or students’ quality of output). Medians would function, then, as another form of feedback on a course’s structuring, pacing, and elements — a kind of self-evaluation. And if faculty members had this data for all courses, they could check for and ensure consistency of grading across academic fields, thus monitoring for and controlling rampant grade inflation or wild fluctuations.
As Dartmouth has done, these median figures shouldn’t be publicly circulated (e.g., on the Registrar’s website) in order to deter students from attempting to game course selection and purposely pick “easier” classes. After all, the intent of implementing this design is to facilitate academic risk-taking, much like the present P/D/F policy, lessen the focus on the letter grade itself and place more emphasis on the fun and enjoyment of learning. The intellectual rewards of wrestling with, and eventually mastering, unfamiliar or difficult material should be more treasured than the final letter grade. Therefore, students should only have statistics about classes they’ve finished taking.
Of course, the transition to a contextual GPA may come with its own complications. The biggest foreseeable troubles are on the logistical front. For a case study, look no further than the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, which killed its contextual GPA in 2017, despite years of efforts towards launching such a system. The UNC administration concluded that adding extra columns to the transcript and revamping the registrar’s site would be infeasible, citing “technical challenges” and “prohibitive costs.” Still, for Princeton, an educational institution with ample resources, these shouldn’t be large issues — indeed, they pale in comparison to far more serious problems that have to be dealt with (e.g., the conversion of certificate programs to minors or campus construction).
Contextualizing the student GPA through median grades grants every stakeholder involved a win: students have improved access to information at their fingertips about their performance and are incentivized to engage in academic exploration and risk-taking; faculty can use the data to make modifications to, and prioritize consistency in, their courses; and employers and graduate school admissions committees have a fuller picture about students’ work in each course and the personal circumstances that reflect upon that work.
This humble suggestion ought to be merely the start of an important discussion about grading reform at Princeton — one which we can hope won’t cease anytime soon. Adopting contextual grading through class medians, as outlined above, will prove an excellent first step towards demystifying the student GPA and grading process at Princeton.
Henry Hsiao is a first-year contributing columnist and assistant Opinion editor from Princeton, N.J. He can be reached at henry.hsiao@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Pop star Daya and rapper NLE Choppa will headline Fall 2024 Lawnparties, which follows the first week of classes on Sunday, Sept. 8. The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) made the announcement via Instagram on Friday, Aug. 23.
The main stage festivities will kick off at 2 p.m. on Frist North Lawn, with a yet-to-be announced student opener playing until 2:25 p.m. Daya will take the stage at 2:45 p.m. for a 30-minute performance, and NLE Choppa will then conclude the show from 3:30 p.m. to 4:15 p.m.
The early announcement caught the student body by surprise, bypassing the typical season of intense speculation among students of who will headline the event.
“We’re striving to stay on top of things,” said Aum Dhruv ’27, a social committee member, “making it easier for people to plan for Lawnparties so working to release info earlier will hopefully help with that.”
Dhruv is a staff Audience creator for the Daily Princetonian.
This year’s Lawnparties will embrace a “fall festival” theme, reflecting the season of transition as students begin a new academic year, with an autumnal aesthetic. This is the second time Lawnparties has been accompanied by a theme, following the 2024 Spring Lawnparties’ “Tropic Like It’s Hot.”
“We wanted it to signify a calm yet exciting year ahead,” USG Social Committee Chair Enzo Kho ’26 explained.
This fall’s event will follow a Lawnparties last semester that was marked by turbulence on campus, when the concerts coincided with the beginnings of weeks long “Gaza Solidarity Encampment” protests.
The selection of both artists was intended to provide students a diverse musical lineup while staying within this year’s budget, according to Kho. Specifics of the setlists are not yet finalized.
Daya is a Grammy award-winning pop artist renowned for her chart-topping 2016 hits like “Hide Away” and “Don’t Let Me Down.” She performed at the University of Pennsylvania’s Spring Fling concert in March and at Duke University’s spring festival in 2022.
NLE Choppa, whose full name is Bryson LaShun Potts, is known for energetic rap tracks such as “SLUT ME OUT” and “Shotta Flow.” Like Lil Tecca, who headlined Lawnparties in the spring, Potts ascended to rap stardom as a teenager and is now 21 years old. In fall of 2023, Potts announced and completed a college tour that included 13 shows at universities across the country. This past spring, he continued the college circuit, performing at other schools, such as the University of Cincinnati and Indiana University. College is a prevalent theme in Potts’ music and branding, including in his 2023 single “College Girls,” and merch emblazoned with “NLE University.”
Alongside the performances, Campus Club will feature a variety of inflatable and lawn games for student enjoyment throughout the day.
Food offerings will include a mix of favorite items from previous Lawnparties, with the addition of new carnival-themed snacks to match the fall festival theme. Students can look forward to a selection of grab-and-go options and food trucks.
“Our goal is to always provide the students the best experience, going beyond what we’ve already done last semester,” Kho told the ‘Prince.’ “We wanted this first big event of the year [to be] memorable for the students.”
Alena Zhang is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
With the first week of class coming to a close, many students are looking forward to one of the most quintessential Princeton events of the semester — Lawnparties. However, walking around campus for the first time since the spring semester has left many students wondering, “Where are all the lawns we’re supposed to party on?”
In an interview with the Daily PrintsAnything, Priya Medd ’28 expressed both excitement and worry for her first Lawnparties.
“I already picked out a nice white dress, but now I’m worried that it’ll just get covered in mud and dust,” Medd explained. “Where is all the grass in the pictures they showed me during orientation?”
The ‘Prints’ sent out a staffer to search for this “grass,” but accidentally got barricaded in by new fences brandishing the phrase “Princeton Builds Access.”
Some students expressed relief that the venue had changed to a muddy swamp. Regina 1901-Laughlin ’27 shared how they were happy that their shoes would be ready to take on the new site.
“Last year, I went to Lawnparties with some new Sambas — they were covered in mud after,” she explained. “This year, I got some Golden Gooses to take on the soil — the perfect distressed shoes for this deeply distressed event.”
The Daily PrintsAnything also spoke with Lawnparties headliner Daya, who said that the University originally organized for her to perform in the Art Museum construction site on top of an excavator.
“I was confused because they sent me pictures of a dirt mound with the caption ‘Main Stage,’” she began. “They weren’t even planning on stopping construction during my performance.”
The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) plans for this fall’s Lawnparties to be the last held outside in the marshes near the Art Museum construction site. USG Social Chair J.D. Walz ’26 explained that budget cuts will move the event inside in the spring.
“Princeton students will be excited to hear that this spring’s Lawnparties will be held in the Choi Dining Hall away from the elements,” Walz explained. “We applied for additional funds to expand the lawn near the Wawa to accommodate the event, but our Student Activities Funding Engine request has been pending for 18 months.”
According to the “Rights, Rules, Responsibilities” section on Lawnparties, the “party” does not technically have to occur on a “lawn,” but the “lawn” should at least either be in view or accessible for photos. We at the Daily PrintsAnything do not know why there would be a section in “Rights, Rules, Responsibilities” about Lawnparties, but we do know that it is poorly written and it took us a few hours to figure out what they were trying to say.
Spencer Bauman is a co-head Humor editor. He is still trying to contact facilities to help get that one staffer out of the construction site fence prison. He can be reached at sbauman[at]princeton.edu.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.Seven committee chairs gave presentations and reports on their work at the weekly meeting of the Undergraduate Student Government (USG). Aum Dhruv ’27, Social Committee Chair, also confirmed that a headline act for Lawnparties has been selected, with the name of the performer to be announced on April 9.
Starting the meeting with his customary President’s Report, Enzo Kho ’26 told the Senate that he had attended a meeting with U-Councilor Luqmaan Bamba ’27 and Gil Joseph ’25 “about the international student experience.” Kho himself is from the Philippines. On Friday, the Davis International Center sent a message to international students on Friday, advising them to carry their I-94 forms and identification at all times.
Dhruv delivered the Social Committee’s presentation. While revealing that a decision for the headliner for Lawnparties has been made, he explained that the committee is working on how to address typical crowd control problems.
“This semester, we’re really focusing on creating a new fencing system,” Dhruv said. ”You saw crowding last semester, we want to do our best to mitigate that, so we’ve been working with PSafe (Princeton Public Safety) on those efforts.”
Anuj Krishnan ’27, Chair of the Undergraduate Student Life Committee (USLC), expressed that the USLC is currently focusing on two key priorities: “being a listening ear” and advocating for policy within Princeton, responding to changes in U.S. policy.
“I think that we really started the conversation there and hopefully ... we can continue to push the advocacy and get some results,” Krishnan explained.
Brian Mhando ’26, Chair of the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Committee, said that the committee recently held a town hall “addressing concerns regarding federal DEI policies. And generally, I heard that it was helpful for some students.”
“We’ve got to continue having those conversations, especially now,” he added.
Arosheny Puvanenthirarajah ’26, Chair of the Student Group Recognition Committee, outlined the need for clear, public criteria with regards to club membership and selectivity. Recently, an email was sent to all officers of University-recognized clubs instructing them to add language to their websites, affirming the openness of the clubs.
Associate Dean of Undergraduate Students Ian Deas, present at the USG meeting, explained that “the expectation is that clubs in the default be open to all [unless they have] compelling rationale [and] received exemption to be selective. We haven’t yet released those standards.”
When asked why the standards have not yet been released publicly, Deas did not directly answer the question, saying “we can talk more about this offline but ... this is in direct response to students.”
Connor Romberg ’27, Chair of the Academic Committee, plans to facilitate discussions on student concerns, particularly regarding final assessments and first-year Writing Seminars. He also said that an academic newsletter is upcoming to highlight departmental resources and faculty research. Romberg is a former assistant editor for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’
Chair of the Sustainability Committee, Sastha Tripathi ’28, announced an upcoming “Princeton Green Career Alumni Panel” on April 4 as an example of making sustainability accessible to students.
The Mental Health Committee Chair, Allen Nieva ’26, presented the committee’s work on promoting mental health awareness, working on preventative and remedial measures, and collaborating with student groups and administrators.
Chair of the Campus and Community Affairs (CCA) Committee Oscar Barrios ’27 also described collaborations with students and administrators. According to Barrios, the committee is working to provide more experiences such as recreational trips and local engagement initiatives for students.
Following the committee chair presentations, a motion was then passed to allow for a private executive committee, at which point the meeting was closed to the public, and media was asked to leave.
USG Meetings are open for all students to attend and are held on Sundays from 5–6 p.m. in Robertson Hall 016.
Andrew Arthur is a staff News writer from London, England and typically covers USG, CPUC, Princeton's institutional legacy and administrative matters.
Please send any corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.For the first time in two years, Princeton’s spring Lawnparties was not a washout. The biannual musical event hosted by the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) was held on Sunday, April 28 and marked the end of the spring semester. Throughout the day, students partied along Prospect Avenue and on Frist North Lawn, under sunny skies with temperatures that peaked at 79 degrees.
Lawnparties was mostly unaffected by the ongoing “Gaza Solidarity Encampment” occurring about 500 feet away from the main headliner on Frist North Lawn. While the majority of protesters left the sit-in for about 30 minutes to move to the fountain outside Robertson Hall, where many students were taking photos, around noon, protesters remained at the McCosh courtyard for the duration of the Lawnparties student opener and headliner.
The warm weather matched this year’s Lawnparties theme, “Tropic Like It’s Hot.” While a few students sported bucket hats, pool floaties, and especially bright colors, most students wore sundresses and preppy outfits, matching looks from previous Lawnparties.
Like most years, the day’s activities included parties hosted by the various eating clubs along Prospect Avenue, a student opening performance by Weatherboy on the main stage, and a finale with headliner Lil Tecca. The USG Social Committee hosted a Foam Party at Campus Club during the day, and students dyed green and blue from foam could be seen walking down the street.
However, the logistics traditional to Lawnparties were changed, particularly the wristbanding location, which is typically in McCosh courtyard. This year, wristbanding was moved to the backyard of Campus Club. In an email to the student body, USG Communications wrote, “As a friendly reminder, please remember that wristbanding will take place in the Campus Club Backyard. This decision was made in line with USG’s commitment to community safety and well-being and in consideration of the fact that today is an active day on campus.”
At the same time, there were calls to cancel Lawnparties due to the continuing “Gaza Solidarity Encampment” happening in McCosh courtyard. In the days leading up to Lawnparties, Princeton Israel Apartheid Divest (PIAD) called for USG to cancel the event in an email to residential college listservs. On Sunday, an email sent to residential college listservs with the display name “Encampment for Gaza” urged students to personally boycott Lawnparties in solidarity with the protest.
“Join us! Refuse to celebrate an institution that has violated our rights to freedom of speech, assembly, and protest,” the email read. “It is up to us to set the bar for our belief in the value of human life.”
During the festivities, protesters briefly moved to the fountain outside Robertson Hall, a popular spot where students gather to take pictures. They continued down Prospect Avenue, turning around near Tower Club. After circling around the corner of Prospect Avenue and Washington Road, the protesters returned to McCosh courtyard.
In the early afternoon, eating clubs held performances in advance of the headliner. The Cap and Gown Club, Cottage Club, Quadrangle Club, and Tiger Inn all hosted DJs. Tiger Inn drew a lively crowd, with students dancing and sitting along the wall that lines the front yard of the club. Cottage was also particularly busy, with the crowd stretching to the sidewalk within minutes of opening its DJ performance at 1:30 p.m.
Cannon Dial Elm Club, Tower Club, Ivy Club, Terrace Club, and Colonial Club all invited live bands to perform. Hippie Sabotage performed at Cannon, Mico was at Tower, Coco & Breezy was at Ivy, and both Trip Kissing and Iriespect were at Terrace. At Colonial, Between Friends performed from 1–2:30 p.m., bringing groups of students to the front lawn. The group played popular songs, including “iloveyou” and “Haircut,” as students swayed to the beat.
“Princeton, thank you for inviting us to come to your beautiful school,” the band said midway through the show.
The musical acts appeared to be a hit with partygoers.
“[Lawnparties is] like a music festival, but localized, and you feel community from it,” Sonia Balani said, a sophomore at Rutgers University visiting Princeton for the day with friends, in an interview with The Daily Princetonian. “I liked watching Between Friends, because we just sat on the lawn and didn’t have to be in a crowded place, and you’re just able to enjoy it.”
Between eating clubs, students had the opportunity to grab snacks and visit various food trucks, including Taco Bell, Nomad Pizza, and Rita’s Italian Ice and Pretzels. At Bendheim House, Chabad, the Center for Jewish Life (CJL), and the Alcohol Initiative partnered to create the world’s largest matzah pizza.
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ Rabbi Eitan Webb from the Chabad House wrote, “When the Chabad student board realized that Lawnparties coincided with Passover, they knew that they wanted to do something special.” Volunteers could be seen blowtorching the matzah pizza as students came by to grab pieces.
After the festivities on Prospect Avenue, the party moved to Frist North Lawn, where student opener Weatherboy performed. The group performed hits including “The Chain” by Fleetwood Mac, “Kyoto” by Phoebe Bridgers, and “You Oughta Know” by Alanis Morissette. The voice of lead singer Samara Samad ’25 filled the courtyard as she bounced around the stage.
“You guys have been a lovely crowd. Thanks so much for being out here,” she said to the audience toward the end of the performance.
“I think Lawnparties is great, the weather is great, and I love the student opener. I think they’re so good,” Melody Choi ’25 said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ “I’m very excited,” she said, about waiting to see Lil Tecca.
Once Weatherboy filed offstage, a DJ took their place to amp up the crowd for Lil Tecca. Yet, before the start of the headliner, Public Safety (PSAFE) requested that students take “two big steps back” from the front of the barricade to prevent students from being crushed against the barrier as they were for A$AP Ferg in fall 2021. Resounding sounds of disapproval rang from the crowd.
Alarm bells rang to signal the start of the show. A screen, accompanied by pre-recorded audio, announced the artist’s arrival.
“This is not a drill. I repeat, this is not a drill. This is your emergency broadcast system. Announcing the commencement of heaven on earth. These are your final moments of preparation. Please gather your belongings and make your way to the front,” the announcement said. Lil Tecca took to the stage slightly after 3:15 p.m. to the cheers of students.
Throughout the performance, students jumped, raised their hands to the beat, and sang lyrics as they recorded the performance.  Lil Tecca engaged onstage, jumping up and down and waving his arms as he sang. He rallied students with phrases like “turn that sh*t up” and “make some motherf**cking noise, Princeton.”
“Can we get a ‘we love you, Tecca?’” the artist asked, which received a powerful “We love you, Tecca,” from the crowd.
Between performances, the sound effects of air horns blared to announce new songs.
Throughout the performance, security continued to make its presence known. PSAFE officers stood on the barricades, holding up posters that said “Get Down” and requesting that students move back from the very front of the lawn.
At one point, Lil Tecca chimed in at the front-row fans.
“Take two steps back. We care,” he said between two of his songs.
Lil Tecca closed with one of his most popular hits, “Ransom.” Students shouted the lyrics and huddled together for the final song.
“Thank you for having me. Maybe one day I might get an invite to the frat party or something,” he joked before exiting the stage as students held their hands in heart shapes to the stage and yelled “Tecca” in a chorus.
Isabella Dail is a News contributor and head editor for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Students dance and cheer while watching headliners. Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian




 

NLE Choppa descends from stage to sing with concertgoers.Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian




 

Students enjoy Domino’s Pizza on the Frist north lawn before headliners perform.Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian




 

Students walk on Goheen Walk through balloon arch with autumnal colors in line with Lawnparties’ “fall festival” theme.Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian




 

PSAFE officers move barricades to block off Prospect Ave., where Lawnparties attendees traversed to grab University-provided snacks and view eating club performances.Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian




 

Students gather at Colonial to watch Tiffany Day perform ahead of the Lawnparties headliners.Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian




 

Students crowd against the barricade to view performances. The crowd was later asked to take a few steps back.Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian




 

Students line up for Nomad Pizza, one of the several food offerings on Prospect Ave. Ammaar Alam / The Daily Princetonian
Head Copy Editor Nathan Beck contributed reporting.Twice a year, students swarm Prospect Avenue for the peak of the University’s social calendar: Lawnparties. Featuring food trucks and live music leading up to the USG-sponsored headliner, the biannual event is an essential part of the Princeton student experience.
To examine the history of Lawnparties, the Daily Princetonian combed through our archives to pull the list of acts, categorize their genre, and measure their popularity by looking at their monthly listeners. Furthermore, the ‘Prince’ found weather data for Lawnparties of years past to see how often rain falls on this momentous occasion, as it did last fall. This year’s headliner fits with the norm as a rap artist and the weather is expected to be warm, but rainy.

Our analysis dates back to Fall 2006, when an 18-year-old Rihanna took the stage in Quadrangle Club’s backyard. Since then, 30 additional artists have performed in a headlining capacity, with the exceptions of Spring 2021 and Spring 2020, which were canceled due to COVID-19, and Fall 2009, where there was no headliner.
Through Fall 2021, all Lawnparties performances were held in the backyard of Quadrangle Club, with the exception of Fall 2020’s virtual event. Due to construction for the new Engineering School & School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (ES & SEAS), the main performance was moved to the Frist North Lawn starting in Spring 2022. The last Lawnparties held in Quad’s backyard is remembered for its chaotic and dangerous pushing and shoving, which may be less of a concern in the larger Frist North Lawn.
Twelve of the 31 headlining acts we found were Hip-Hop/Rap artists as classified by Apple Music. Rock, R&B/Soul, Pop, and Alternative each had four artists, while three artists performed Electronic music. The genre with the longest drought is Rock — the last Rock artist to headline Lawnparties was Third Eye Blind in Fall 2012. Six of the last ten Lawnparties headliners have been Hip-Hop/Rap artists.
Who are the biggest names to have performed at Lawnparties? We looked at the number of monthly listeners each headliner has on Spotify to gauge their popularity. By this metric, Rihanna is far and away the most popular artist Princeton has hosted, with over 75 million monthly listeners — more than double each of the next two artists, Jason Derulo and Wiz Khalifa. The average number of monthly listeners Lawnparties headliners have is nearly 11.6 million — though the median is just 7.1 million, suggesting that Rihanna’s astronomical total raises the average.
The prospect of attracting higher-profile names to Lawnparties has entered the discussion surrounding a proposal by the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) — which funds, plans, and organizes Lawnparties — to raise student activity fees. “We had huge names. We had like Rihanna, I think we had Maroon 5. If we did truly last look at expanding the student activities fee in 2002, it would make sense that we were able to suddenly get much larger names. That’s trickled out over time,” USG President Stephen Daniels ’24 told the USG Senate in defense of the proposal. USG Treasurer Walker Penfield ’25 likewise listed better Lawnparties acts as a potential benefit of higher student activity fees in an op-ed for the ‘Prince.’
Penfield is a staff Humor writer for the ‘Prince.’
Waka Flocka Flame last had a song on the Billboard Hot 100 in 2012, 11 years ago.
Looking at the calendar, Spring Lawnparties has almost always fallen on the first Sunday of May. This pattern was broken last Spring, when it was moved to April 24, the last Sunday of April. This new trend will continue in 2023, with Waka Flocka Flame taking the stage on Sunday, April 30.
On the other hand, Fall Lawnparties usually takes place on the third Sunday of September. The COVID-19 pandemic changed this as well, as A$AP Ferg took the stage on the first Sunday of October and Hippocampus on September 11, the second Sunday of the month. Last fall’s Lawnparties was the earliest in the year Lawnparties have ever been held since at least 2006.
Weather can affect the Lawnparties experience, as students saw firsthand when Hippocampus performed amid clouds and rain last fall. Fall 2022’s Lawnparties was the first Fall Lawnparties to experience rain, as the four other Lawnparties to occur under rainclouds were Spring 2014, 2016, 2017, and 2019.
Across the 30 in-person Lawnparties we examined, the average high temperature on the big day was 72 degrees Fahrenheit. This ranged from a low of 50 degrees during Spring 2016’s Lawnparties to a sweltering 91 degrees in Fall 2008. Fall Lawnparties tended to be warmer than Spring Lawnparties; the Fall average high temperature was 78 degrees, while the average was just 65 degrees for Spring Lawnparties.
Another factor in Lawnparties’ weather is the presence of strong wind gusts. The average maximum wind speed on Lawnparties is 11.5 miles per hour, ranging from the fairly still Fall 2009 and Fall 2017, where wind speeds reached a high of just six miles per hour, to the gusty Spring 2007 and Spring 2014, where wind speeds hit a high of 21 and 20 miles per hour, respectively. Last Spring’s Lawnparties had the third-highest wind speeds at 18 miles per hour.
The National Weather Service predicts a chance of rain — at the time of publication, between 30 and 60 percent — for Sunday, increasing throughout the day. The high temperature is estimated to be 69 degrees — warmer than the Spring average.
Ryan Konarska is an associate Data editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Amid much anticipation, rapper Lil Tecca is set to headline Princeton’s Spring 2024 Lawnparties concert, announced to students via the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Instagram on Friday, April 19.
This year’s Lawnparties, which falls on Sunday, April 28, embraces a tropical theme: “Tropic Like It’s Hot.” The main stage festivities will kick off at 2 p.m. at Frist North Lawn, with the student opener, Weatherboy, performing at 2:30 p.m., followed by the headliner at 3:15 p.m.
Lil Tecca’s management has officially confirmed his appearance with the Social Committee, though specifics on his setlist are yet to be finalized. The rapper, whose given name is Tyler-Justin Anthony Sharpe, is 21 years old and hails from Queens, New York. He is known for his melodic flow and catchy hooks, and has garnered millions of views on TikTok with chart-topping tracks like “Ransom,” “Did It Again,” and “Love Me.” His unique style has firmly established him as a notable figure in contemporary hip-hop; he has over 20 million monthly listeners on Spotify at the time of publication.
Recently, Sharpe performed at the University of New Hampshire on Saturday, April 13. He was also set to headline spring 2024 concerts at Stony Brook University in New York and at nearby Seton Hall University, but canceled both appearances.
Student band Weatherboy was unable to open last semester due to unforeseen scheduling changes prompted by inclement weather. Band members include Michael Salama ’24, Samara Samad ’25, Nina Green ’24, and Paolo Montoya ’25.
“We’re super duper excited to perform, and we hope the students who are watching will enjoy it as much as we have been enjoying the preparation,” Salama said in an interview with The Daily Princetonian.
Extensive free food options will once again be available throughout the day leading up to the headliner event. Per usual, all dining halls will open at 9 a.m., and Tico’s Bagels will be available starting at 10 a.m. at the wristbanding station in McCosh Courtyard.
Grab-and-go food options, including campus dining fruit cups and Taco Bell, will be available starting at 11 a.m.; five food trucks, including Rita’s, Nomad Pizza, Tico’s, cheesecake on a stick, and a kosher food option, will open at 12 p.m. More water stations have been added this year to ensure attendees stay hydrated throughout the day.
Organizers, with the help of the Alcohol Initiative, are working to expand food options to make it more accessible for students with dietary restrictions. Efforts include providing gluten-free options and catering to various religious backgrounds, with plans underway to offer a kosher for Passover option — matzah pizza —  in collaboration with the Center for Jewish Life (CJL).
This year’s Lawnparties event falls during the eight-day Jewish holiday of Passover, during which many Jewish students on campus will be observing the holiday’s dietary rules.
In previous years, the Alcohol Initiative funded a number of Lawnparties activities and food options, but has scaled back this year following a USG budget increase in September that allowed USG to take on a larger share of the funding burden for Lawnparties.
This year’s Lawnparties organizers have also made changes to the event’s infrastructure. Additional enhancements planned include sound systems in certain areas like McCosh Courtyard and the SPIA fountain, where students typically take photos earlier in the day. Campus Club will also feature an array of attractions, from temporary tattoos to lawn games to a vintage photo booth.
Social Committee Chair Enzo Kho ’26 told the ‘Prince’ that the social committee is excited about “trying out a lot of things this semester.”
Alena Zhang is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.For the second semester in a row, Princeton’s Lawnparties — held on Sunday — was greeted with sunshine, bright blue skies, and temperatures in the low to mid seventies. Students flocked outside of Robertson Hall to splash in the SPIA fountain, danced outside the eating clubs lining Prospect Ave., and assembled on Frist North Lawn in support of this year’s guest performers.
Unlike other Lawnparties, the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Social Committee decided to invite two headliners this fall, singer-songwriter Daya and rapper NLE Choppa, rather than sticking to their usual lineup of a single headliner preceded by a student opener.
With this selection of two artists, USG intended to provide students with a diverse selection of music while staying within the budget, USG Social Chair Enzo Kho ’26 told The Daily Princetonian last month.
The student band Oh S*** Look Out was initially prepared to perform as an opener, but last Friday, USG and the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students (ODUS) connected them with the production company preparing the main stage to discuss “logistical challenges” the company had been facing. Kho said issues stemming from “delays in responses from some of the artists’ management [the headliners]” prevented them from being able to “accommodate another component.”
The student body had mixed feelings about this year’s format.
“I mean, I love Daya,” said Lily Gose ’25. “I think I’d barely heard of him [NLE Choppa] before and then I listened to some of his songs and I was like, cool. However, she noted that she preferred “laid back artists.”
“I really like how they appealed to multiple different music tastes,” said Samantha Handwerk ’26. “You have Daya, and you have NLE Choppa, so a wide variety where everyone gets a little something that they like.”
After Daya concluded her set, the audience was left waiting for NLE Choppa to come onstage. ODUS and USG planned to have the two headliners’ performances come to a hard stop at 4:50 p.m., but NLE Choppa did not come on stage until 4:17 p.m when he was originally scheduled to conclude his performance. This delay frustrated students and even led some to exit the lawn before he performed.
“It’s [Lawnparties] been good so far, except for this little pause,” Maaso Ortega ’26 told the ‘Prince’ around 4 p.m., rating the day a seven out of ten. “I’m going home to take a nap now,” he added.
For those who stayed, the concert’s enclosure ran out of water at approximately 4:10 p.m. before NLE Choppa took the stage. Students were not permitted to bring their own liquids into the Frist North lawn venue.
Seven of Princeton’s 11 eating clubs hosted separate musical guests between 1 p.m. and 2:30 p.m., offering students even more variety to the headliners. Cap and Gown Club hosted two bands, The Broken Vinyls and Arcy Drive, earlier in the day beginning at 12:15 p.m. Ivy Club, Colonial Club, Terrace Club, Tiger Inn, Tower Club, and Cottage Club were all also open for performances. Cannon Dial Elm Club remained open but did not host a performer.
Students told the ‘Prince’ they were pleasantly surprised by the artists Laundry Day, Bipolar Sunshine, and Tiffany Day, which performed respectively at Terrace, Tiger Inn, and Colonial. “I had never heard of them [Laundry Day] before and I ended up really loving their music,” said Sicile Naddeo-Gjergji ’26.
Naddeo-Gjergji said that she did not attend Lawnparties last spring as part of a pro-Palestine boycott. The spring’s festivities coincided with the 21-day “Gaza Solidarity Encampment” sit-in. “It’s nice to be back after a bit of an extended break and seeing everyone come together again,” she said. As an upperclassman, Naddeo-Gjergji also felt “a lot more relaxed because I know how to handle the Princeton workload and I’m letting myself have a bit of grace this year,” she said.
Looking ahead, students like Xaivian Lee ’26 gave the ‘Prince’ suggestions for future Lawnparties performers they would want to see grace the stage. “I’m gonna go against the grain here, I think they should get Dominic Fike for Lawnparties. I’m a big fan,” he said. “I think that would be a good ass vibe, especially when it’s nice outside … something you could experience either in the crowd or sitting further back on the lawn.”
Kho told the ‘Prince’ the USG Social Committee “was very pleased and happy with how smoothly most things went” throughout the day, adding that “while working with third parties and vendors brings its share of challenges, we handled them effectively.”
Megan Cameron is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ from New Windsor, N.Y.
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Two days away from Lawnparties, the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) has yet to announce a student opener. A long-held tradition for the concert event, a student ensemble performs an opening act for the celebrity guest(s), bringing a slice of Princeton’s art scene to the star-studded affair.
While the rest of the student body was left in anticipation, The Daily Princetonian heard a rumor: Oh S*** Look Out, a student band created just last year, would take the stage on Sunday.
The band confirmed to the ‘Prince’ they were set to perform. If that was the case, we wondered, why was their performance still being kept under wraps so close to Lawnparties?
Well, that’s because they may not be the opener.
According to the USG Social Committee, they are waiting to hear if their production vendor has the equipment the band requested. If the company cannot provide the equipment, it’s possible Oh S*** Look Out may no longer be the opener.
“There’s a possibility? That’s crazy!” said Samara Samad ’25, lead singer of the band.
It turns out the ‘Prince’ was the one to break the news to the band.
While the USG figures out who will actually open Lawnparties, which they anticipate revealing by Saturday afternoon, the ‘Prince’ caught up with three of the band’s members before they played a gig at Terrace on Thursday night to kick off the academic year. The interview delves into who Oh S*** Look Out are — namely, a rock band taking the eating club scene by storm made up of a group of friends who love to jam.
This interview has been lightly edited for clarity and concision.
The Daily Princetonian: Somebody from the USG was saying that there’s something happening with equipment that could make it difficult. So basically, the question I had for you guys is: did you request any weird or abnormal equipment?
Ashley Abramson ’25: Not at all. Just like drums and amps and microphones.
Samara Samad ’25: No funky stuff.
AA: Not any keys, not any winds. We are, like, the most basic, bare-bones band: two guitars, bass, drum, singers.
DP: What is everybody’s role in the band?
LS: Leah Shefferman [’27], drummer.
SS: Samara Samad, lead singer.
AA: Ashley Abramson, I play bass, and then Mason Hooks [’25] and Tait Oberg [’27] both play guitar.
DP: And the name of that band is?
AA: It's Oh S*** Look Out. Shortened to OSLO.
SS: If you had to shorten it, or like, censor it …
AA: It could just be like, “Oh [letter] S” and stars. [Oh S***]
SS: OSLO is kind of lame.
DP: No, OSLO’s cool. So, what is the origin story of this band?
AA: So, we’re all in the Princeton University Rock Ensemble (PURE) here; Samara is the former president, and it’s a very successful rock group on campus. People audition with lots of different types of instruments. The goal of the group is to bring people together who play rock instruments for the purpose of forming these independent bands or just like, play music and have fun.
A lot of times bands kind of form from that. You meet people who you vibe with, and we said, hey, we want to play some shows at the eating clubs or wherever, or we just like to play music together. Yeah, that’s kind of the origin of the band. It’s very simple.
DP: Are a lot of the previous ones that have headlined lawnparties from PURE?
OSLO: Oh, yeah.
SS: Maybe not all members, but a lot of them.
LS: And we played some gigs together, the five of us, last semester.
SS: Yeah, at eating clubs. So we played enough gigs together that we said, “Hey, this group is really fun. And let’s submit one of the videos from the eating clubs that our friends took on their iPhones and see if we can play at Lawnparties.”
DP: Have you ever played anything this big before? As big as Lawnparties?
AA: Samara has.
SS: I was in another band, in the last band [to perform at Lawnparties].
DP: What band was that?
SS: Weather Boy.
DP: So, how are you feeling about this Lawnparties? Are you excited?
SS: I’m really excited.
AA: I’m a little bit nervous. I’ve never headlined anything like this, and I’ve actually applied to be the Lawnparties headliner a couple times before, and I never thought that I would. I’m a senior now, and I kind of thought that my time had passed for that. So this was a really, really exciting turn of events.
DP: Are you all seniors?
LS: I’m a sophomore. Tait is also a sophomore.
SS: We’re seniors. I’m a senior. It’s really fun to just play with friends and have this experience. Like, it’s wonderful to be opening for these headliners, but it’s also just so great to be having beautiful, fun times with your friends. That’s essentially what it is. Regardless of crowds or what the setting is, it's just, you know, making music and having fun.
DP: What kind of music do you usually do?
LS:  Rock-oriented. Rock and jazz depending on the setting.
DP: Do you play any originals or mostly covers?
SS: Not in this band. Weather Boy, we did some originals. But this year, it’s a quick turnaround. This will be all covers, but in the future, originals would be fun too.
DP: Do you have a specific band memory that you look back on with fondness, or a crazy thing that happened to you guys, a story?
SS: Something always goes wrong.
AA: We’re dealing with so much stuff, and being in front of a lot of people.
I would say we were playing a gig at Cannon. And it was packed. It was really hot, it was really loud, it was really fun, it was exciting, and the vibes were great. And the guitarist, Mason, was playing, he’s absolutely shredding. He broke two of his strings. It just snapped. We didn’t have a backup guitar. And so, Mason runs from Cannon all the way back to his dorm — which was close to the UStore, so across campus — to grab a second guitar and then ran all the way back.
He came back sweating, and we were just improv-ing; we had another guitar, so we played some songs that we could play with one guitar, and they still sounded great, and we kept the crowd going. It was stressful, but it was exciting.
DP: Sounds like you all have experienced rolling with the punches.
SS: Yeah, it teaches you to be scrappy. Like, find solutions on the spot. Not only are we the musicians playing, but we’re also our own roadies; we’re moving the equipment, promoting, we’re doing all this stuff.
DP: Do you have a favorite song to play together?
AA: I really like playing Ohio.
LS: I was gonna say Ohio!
AA: It starts off really slow — very slow intro for almost a minute, and then it just builds, builds, builds. And Samara has this amazing belt voice. I think it builds so beautifully, and it’s got a great guitar riff. The drums are really fun. And the bass, of course. I mean, I love when I get a good bass line.
[indiscernible Terrace Club mumbles]
DP: You like Mamma Mia?!
AA: Rock covers of pop songs are always really fun.
DP: Can you give me any sneak peek of what you might be playing?
SS: Let’s just say it goes from pop to ...
AA: Absolute metal.
SS: We’re really doing a fun, diverse set because as the opener, we don’t have a lot of time. We don’t get to play a lot of songs.
DP: How many do you get?
SS: We’re playing for about 20 minutes. Normally, we’re used to playing between an hour and two hours, and we want to play songs that the crowd may vibe with regardless of their music taste.
DP: Do you have anything else you want to add that you want the Princeton student body to know about OSLO or yourselves?
SS: We’re just ready for a rocking year.
Editor’s note: Oh S*** Look Out will not perform at Lawnparties and the USG did forgo a student opener for the Fall 2024 Lawnparties.
Raphaela Gold is an associate Features editor and head Archives editor at the ‘Prince.’
Bryan Zhang is a head Copy editor and senior Puzzle constructor for the ‘Prince.’ He avidly avoids writing, except for today.Electronic music duo Loud Luxury will headline fall 2023 Lawnparties, with singer and producer Pheelz as a supporting act, according to an email to students from the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Social Committee on Sunday, Sept. 3.
The show will take place on the Frist North Lawn on Sunday, Sept. 10, the weekend after the first day of classes for the semester. The concert will also feature student opener Weatherboy, a band made up of Michael Salama ’24, Paolo Montoya ’25, Rohit Oomman ’24 and Samara Samad ’25.
Spring 2023 Lawnparties was headlined by rapper Waka Flocka Flame, and Fall 2022 Lawnparties by indie rock band Hippo Campus. Both performances battled rainy weather, which likely affected attendance.
Loud Luxury, a duo of electronic music artists and DJs Andrew Fedyk and Joe Depace, is best known for their 2017 hit “Body,” featuring Brando, which has just over a billion streams on Spotify. The song is seen as the duo’s breakthrough hit, reaching the top 10 in multiple countries. The duo won the Juno Award for Dance Recording of the Year in 2019. The group has 11,652,205 monthly listeners on Spotify as of the start of September 2023.
The group has performed at several similar events at other universities. They’re scheduled for an upcoming performance at Vanderbilt University on Sept. 29, and have previously performed at Western University, Cornell University, Emory University, UMass Amherst, and Tulane University.
In a survey conducted by USG for the 2019 Lawnparties Report, Loud Luxury was among the list of artists with more than two recommendations.
Loud Luxury’s selection as the Lawnparties headliner follows an activities fee increase from $45.50 to $95.50. USG President Stephen Daniels ’24 has previously noted Lawnparties headliners as something that could be improved with the help of the larger budget afforded by the fee increase.
“As we’ve seen with Lawnparties, we don’t really have the ability to expand funds and get the sort of headliners [that] students want and see their friends in other schools experiencing,” Daniels said at a USG meeting in Spring 2023.
The Fall 2023 Lawnparties will also see the introduction of a supporting act. Spring 2023 Lawnparties was originally slated to include Skeez as a supporting act, but he eventually dropped out of the lineup. Pheelz is a Nigerian musician with close to 3 million monthly listeners on Spotify as of September 2023.
In an interview with the Daily Princetonian, Salama shared that he and his band were very excited to be selected as the student openers for Lawnparties.
“We’ve played at some Lawnparties before but only at the clubs, so this is a great step up,” he said. The band, which formed towards the end of last semester, is a psychedelic rock group. Salama said they would be playing “classic and psychedelic rock covers of new pop songs.”
Nandini Krishnan is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ who usually covers the USG.
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: This article previously misstated the date of the Lawnparties announcement as Aug. 3. The correct date is Sept. 3. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Senate convened on Sunday, Sept. 29, focusing discussion on the breakdown of the Fall 2024 Lawnparties budget and raised questions for future budgets. The Senate also heard from a facilitator of the Princeton Gender Affinity Group about the transgender student experience and passed two student group event budgets.
4,404 wristbands were sold for Lawnparties this year, a record-high attendance. Total spending summed up to $279,768, just under the $280,000 budget. That budget included a contingency fund of $20,000 beyond what USG expected to spend, nearly all of which was spent.
“The budgetary philosophy we really have with these contingency payments is that they are for contingency,” said Treasurer Uma Fox ’26. “In the best case, you don't want to spend up to the $20,000.”
Social Chair Enzo Kho ’26 recommended that future Lawnparties should have a target spending of $260,000, a reduction from this year’s spendings.
Later in the meeting, facilitator of the Princeton Gender Affinity Group Aster Haviland ’26 spoke about the difficulties of being a transgender student at Princeton and reflected on what they heard at the Every Voice Conference on Sept. 20. Haviland discussed discrepancies in results from a 2022 University survey that found 9 percent of all students disagreed with the statement “I feel like I belong to the Princeton campus community,” while 31 percent of transgender and non-binary students disagreed.
Haviland further discussed other issues faced by transgender and non-binary students, such as professors using incorrect pronouns to refer to their students.
“I was in class with another trans student, a junior who had taken a course with the same professor before he transitioned. He was using a different name and had changed his pronouns,” Haviland said during their short speech. “The professor was clearly having a difficult time getting used to it … She kept using his dead name, and I told her, actually, I’m pretty sure he goes by this and she sort of just brushed it off.”
To make transgender and non-binary students feel more accepted at Princeton, Haviland proposed additional education for people in leadership positions and those who frequently interact with students.
Additionally, the meeting also saw budget approvals for events proposed by the Princeton Filipino Community and the Princeton Young Democratic Socialists of America (YDSA) both passed the Senate vote.
The Princeton Filipino Community will host a Halo-Halloween & Filipino Ivy League Conference in November, where students from Princeton and other Ivy League schools will participate in cultural workshops, hear from guest speakers, and watch performances.
The Young Democratic Socialists are hosting the Amazon Labor Union President Conner Spence along with another yet-to-be-named guest speaker on the labor movement and unionizing at Amazon.
USG meetings are open for all students to attend and are held on Sundays from 5–6 p.m. in Robertson Hall 016.
Devon Rudolph is a News contributor and a Sports contributor for the ‘Prince’ from Fairfax, Va.
Correction: A previous version of this article misstated that USG allocated $20,000 additional contingency funds beyond the $280,000 Lawnparties budget; in fact, the contingency funds were included within the total budget. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.For the third semester in a row, Lawnparties were marked by cloudy skies and sporadic rain. The student opener’s set was canceled due to the forecast and the concert schedule was moved up an hour the day of, but students still turned out for a full day of partying to celebrate the start of the semester.
Thunderstorms began in the morning, but the precipitation halted in the early afternoon, leaving enough time for a relatively rain-free day of festivities, including photos at the fountain in front of Robertson Hall, parties in the Eating Clubs on Prospect Avenue, and a headlining performance by EDM duo Loud Luxury, the first headliner in its genre.
Leading up to the main event in the late afternoon, various eating clubs hosted their own musical acts, including Crash Adams at Colonial Club, TREK at Tiger Inn, ZUEZUE at Cottage Club, Club Eat at Quadrangle Club, and Kaleena Zanders at Ivy Club. Strawberry Milk, the student band that opened for Spring 2022 Lawnparties headliner Flo Milli, played Tower Club. Terrace Club’s act also featured students in the classes of 2023 and 2024, with lead singer Kate Short ’23 taking center stage.
Zusha, a Hasidic folk/soul band from New York whose debut EP achieved No. 9 status on Billboard’s World Albums chart, performed under a tent at the Chabad BBQ in front of Bendheim House. The artist’s appearance was co-sponsored by the Alcohol Initiative, Gitty Webb, co-director of the Chabad House told The Daily Princetonian.
Cap and Gown Club hosted Emei, an artist with almost 1.5 million monthly Spotify listeners who gained internet fame in 2022 for her viral TikTok hit “Late to the Party.” She told a large crowd at Cap that she’d always wanted to play a show at the University because she was born at Princeton Medical Center.
The University also sponsored free food at various locations near the headliner stage. Nomad Pizza was stationed in the back of Campus Club, Rita’s Italian Ice in the front, and Taco Bell was in front of the Bendheim Center for Finance.
Weatherboy, the student rock band that was slated as the concert’s opener, also stayed home. According to an email to the student body from the Undergraduate Student Government at 9:45 p.m. on the night before the event, their set was canceled “due to uncertainties with the weather.”
"Weatherboy is definitely excited to perform in the future! Samara Samaad '25, a member of Weatherboy, wrote in a message to The Daily Princetonian "For now, we are going to keep practicing sets to grow together as a band, and we are looking to hopefully perform some Eating Club gigs in the meantime.
“I’m very disappointed that the student performers are not performing today,” Chloe Long ’26 said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ “I think that Princeton might just be a little bit cursed,” she added, referring to the rain, “but we’ll have a good time regardless.”
Sunday’s high temperature of 78 degrees fell exactly in line with fall Lawnparties’ average temperature since 2006. The temperature was cooler than previous years, however, with fall 2022 and 2023’s high temperatures being the lowest since fall 2014.
Lawnparties this year saw rain in the morning, but conditions cleared by noon. Rain on Lawnparties day is a relatively new phenomenon. It has only rained during the Lawnparties headliner four times in Princeton history, with three of these rain events occuring in the last four years. It did not rain during a fall Lawnparties until Fall 2022, when Hippo Campus performed, and it has rained during spring lawnparties on only three occasions — 2009, 2019, and 2023.
While concertgoers avoided rain in the afternoon, the evening saw torrential rain envelop the campus. Cannon Dial Elm Club, which had planned to hold a Lawnparties afterparty on its front lawn at 8 p.m., was forced to cancel its event.
“In an unexpected change of events, we have decided that we will be CLOSED tonight due to the storms outside so we can no longer have this event,” Cannon officers wrote in an email to the student body over Hoagie Mail.
Loud Luxury still had a supporting act — Pheelz, a producer who went onstage shortly after 3 p.m. He played the Jay-Z classic “Empire State of Mind,” subbing out the words ‘New York’ for ‘Princeton.’ Pheelz was initially supposed to go on stage at 4 p.m., but the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) sent out an email earlier in the day saying that doors were opening to the main stage at 2:30 p.m. and Pheelz was performing at 3 p.m.
Loud Luxury took the stage at about 4 p.m. The duo remixed a number of crowd favorites, including Taylor Swift’s “Love Story” and their own hit, “Body.”
Loud Luxury is Lawnparties’ first foray into dance music. Previously, most Lawnparties acts have been hip-hop or rap artists. Of the five lawnparties held since the COVID-19 pandemic, three have been hip-hop or rap artists.
Loud Luxury is the 11th-most popular artist to have performed at Lawnparties when measured by Spotify monthly listeners. Rihanna is by far the most popular act to have performed at Lawnparties, more than doubling the monthly listener count of the next most popular artist, Jason Derulo.
Although certain elements of the Lawnparties schedule were shifted due to weather, many concertgoers still spoke positively about their experience.
“Lawnparties is the glue that holds the student body together,” Stephen Bartell ’25 said.
Lawnparties was held on Sept. 10 on the Frist North Lawn.
Annie Rupertus is an associate News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Ryan Konarska is an associate Data editor and staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Students crowded Frist North Lawn this Sunday, weathering the second rainy Lawnparties this academic year. The conditions disrupted scheduled activities throughout the day, causing long lines at Ivy Club and an early closure at Tiger Inn. Skeez, the planned opener for headliner Waka Flocka Flame, was a no-show, leaving a DJ from Flame’s personnel to warm up the crowd. Student opener Ziff & Griff performed as scheduled.
Though the audience had dwindled by the late afternoon, the crowd on Frist North Lawn was dense in front of the stage. Dancing in tight areas led to at least one student attendee’s injury, eliciting a call from Flame to help the person trampled. Moshing at Lawnparties has resulted in safety issues before: in Fall 2021, one student was hurt during A$AP Ferg’s performance.
Even when equipped with umbrellas, ponchos and raincoats, attendees reported that the bad weather adversely affected their experience.
“It's a little sad with the rain,” said Christopher Caligiuri ’25.
“The rain is kind of just dampening the experience a little bit,” said Amayel Ka ’26.
When asked by The Daily Princetonian if she looked forward to Flame, Ka responded, “I’m going home.”
Others felt more positively, but noted a more chill vibe.
“It's obviously a bit more mild than in past years,” said Max Hines ’25. “But it seems like people are still having a good time.”
As the street flooded, festival favorites fell flat. Food trucks parked on Prospect Avenue opened at 12 p.m., but were under-attended compared to previous Lawnparties. Options included Taco Bell, Nomad Pizza, and Rita’s Italian Ice, as well as cheesecake on a stick, fresh mangos, and pretzels. There were also several water stations along the street.
Per tradition, eating clubs hosted their own entertainment. Ivy Club hosted singer-songwriter Kah-Lo, known for hits “Fake ID” and “Rinse & Repeat,” as well as club opener DJibouti. Tiger Inn and Cap and Gown Club followed the DJ trend, featuring Kaz and Geiger respectively. Other clubs hosted bands: Strawberry Milk performed at Tower Club, Weston Estate at Colonial Club, and Cat in the Wall at Quadrangle Club. Cannon Club brought the last call, hosting a PUID post-Lawnparties celebration at 9 p.m.
The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) also introduced some new features this year. The wristbanding stations offered TigerTale pins to students. Students were able to pose for photos in front of a Lawnparties banner. Additionally, pizza was provided near the main stage in the afternoon.
Of the new features, mid-concert pizza from Domino’s seemed especially popular — slices ran out in the first 15 minutes.
“The pizza in here is like a huge plus,” said Evan Chandran ’24. “It makes more sense staying than leaving to eat and come back.”
On the main stage, Ziff & Griff began their set at 3 p.m. with a remix-heavy playlist. Student backup dancers were an unadvertised surprise for attendees.
In the absence of Skeez, a DJ from Flame’s personnel came on to warm up the crowd prior to the headlining performance. Students didn’t seem to mind the substitution.
“I have no idea who Skeez is,” said Hines.
“There is another opener,” said Jenny Nwokeji ’25. “It's totally fine.”
According to USG Social Chair Avi Attar ’25, Skeez did not disclose a reason for his absence.
Headliner Flame took the stage around 4 p.m., performing his own hit songs “No Hands” and “Hard in Da Paint,” and covering crowd-pleasers such as Major Lazer and DJ Snake’s “Turn Down for What.”
“Where my ladies at?” Flame called to the audience at one point in the show. “Where my frat boys at?”
Izzy Jacobson is a staff News writer and Features contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Tess Weinreich is an associate News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Move In Day, Lawnparties, Freshman Orientation, and the First Day of Classes symbolize the start of the fall semester, not only for students, but also for Princeton’s Grounds team. The events’ toll on campus grounds and lawns necessitates maintenance to restore them to their green glory. The Daily Princetonian spoke to the Grounds team to learn more about the strategies and technologies integral in maintaining campus aesthetics.
Robert Staudt, Assistant Director of Campus Grounds, told the ‘Prince’ in an interview that the setup and takedown of major events requires the construction of tents, the arranging of chairs and tables, the insertion of rods into the ground, and vehicles driving over the lawn.
“That creates a lot more damage,” Staudt said, pointing out the ruts created by tires driving over the grass as a major source of lawn degradation.
Staudt also noted that the foot traffic that comes with these events causes damage. Every year, 3,000 to 4,000 people attend Princeton Lawnparties alone, damaging McCosh Courtyard, Frist North Lawn, and other high-traffic lawns on campus.
Move-in brings a slew of vehicles to campus as well.
“One car a day isn’t bad. It’s when it’s for [the] duration, it gets difficult,” Staudt said. “The cars did trample [the grass] because it was dry.”
Staud noted that Move In Day takes place at a time when the grass is particularly dry.
The area around Princeton is experiencing drought-like conditions after an “especially dry summer,” according to Staudt.
“It’s really the drought we’re trying to combat and get that grass to come back.”
To combat the dryness, Grounds’s main concern is irrigation. The Grounds team is introducing new technologies for irrigation — namely, adding additional hose bibbs that help expedite maintenance on campus. According to Staudt, hose bibbs allow for “water when we need it,” dispensing water for the ground only when necessary.
Staudt also said aerators, which “punch little holes in the ground,” allowing water and oxygen to get in.
Even before the fall semester events, the Grounds team worked all summer to recover from University events — namely Graduation and Reunions, which brought roughly 25,000 guests to Princeton’s campus — at the end of the spring semester.
“[Grounds does] a lot of overseeding, a lot of trying to get that lawn established back right after reunions and commencement activities. We’ll try and get the lawn and back and go through summer healthy and get ready for fall,” Staudt said.
As soon as the Grounds team gets the lawns reseeded and their annual fall cleanup finished, they complete this season’s planting, prioritizing asters, reblooming perennials, and flowers in fall colors among the evergreen textures that are a staple of Princeton landscaping.
Looking ahead to the winter, the Grounds team is preparing for inclement weather and prioritizing safety.
“We’ll get all our equipment ready for the snow. When it snows, we’ll have to be here 24/7 to get the campus back to clean and [as] safe conditions as possible during the winter season.”
Hallie Graham is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ from Nashville, Tenn. who typically covers campus facilities.
Mary Balid is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.For the second year in a row, Opening Exercises were held in front of Nassau Hall, rather than its traditional location of the University Chapel, signaling a historic change in the ceremony that marks the beginning of students’ academic careers.
Class expansion has caused additional changes in the Pre-Rade. In the past, the procession began as first-years departed the University president’s address in the University Chapel and then marched alongside Nassau Street, through the entrance of FitzRandolph Gate and then to Blair Arch. Over the past two years, however, students have started on Cannon Green, walked to and through FitzRandolph Gate, before being seated in front of Nassau Hall to hear the president’s address. From there, they have walked to Alexander Beach, partaking in the barbecue, the Class Photo, and the Step Sing.
Opening Exercises entail a speech from University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83, interfaith ceremonies, and presentation of undergraduate awards.
In this year’s address, titled “Think Critically, Embrace Generously”, Eisgruber told students to take the challenges of their time at Princeton in stride.
“There will inevitably be not just triumphs but also sorrows, not just laughter but also tears, when we challenge ourselves, when we develop and change, and when we care deeply — as we should, as we must — about our academic and co-curricular endeavors and our community,” he said.
Eisgruber, in discussing struggle, recounted an anecdote he has shared in speeches and in response to questions about his difficulties in his first-year physics class as a student at Princeton.
“I took a physics class that was too advanced for me, and I struggled throughout my first year. I was too proud, though, to ask anyone for help. I wanted to prove that I could get through it myself. That was a mistake, and it made that year much tougher than it needed to be,” he said, urging students “to be strong enough to ask for help when you need it.”
Eisgruber also used Maria Ressa ’86, who was present at Opening Exercises and whose 2022 book “How to Stand Up to a Dictator” was this year’s Pre-read for the Class of 2027, as an example of someone who kept her resolve in the face of challenges she faced at Princeton.
Specifically, Eisgruber shared Ressa’s senior thesis, a play she wrote and which she described in her book as her “own private exorcism” — an emotionally charged and yet transformative experience.
“Your Princeton experience, of course, will differ from Maria Ressa’s. It will be uniquely yours. I expect, though, that your path through Princeton, like Maria’s, will include inspiration but also anger, discoveries that may elicit both enlightenment and tears, and lasting friendships along with vexing challenges,” Eisgruber said.
Ressa — who is a journalist as well as co-founder and CEO of Filipino news website Rappler — was awarded the 2021 Nobel Peace Prize for her reporting work.
Eisgruber finished by reaffirming Princeton’s commitment to equality and inclusion and encouraged students to engage freely in campus discourse.
“We can, and should, aspire both to think critically and to embrace generously. I hope that is the path you choose while you are here at Princeton and throughout your lives.”
For first-years, Opening Exercises and the Pre-Rade marked an early milestone in their Princeton careers.
Elisa Gonzalez ’27 told The Daily Princetonian that seeing family members and alumni cheering students on was heartening.
“You could tell that people were very welcoming,” she said. Gonzalez added that Opening Exercises were a nice “showcase of what Princeton had to offer in terms of diversity.”
Yuki Huang ’27, hailing from Atlanta, Ga., told the ‘Prince’ that the Step Sing was a particularly memorable moment for her that day.
“Everyone comes together,” she said.
Huang is the first in her family to go to college, and she said partaking in the tradition of the Pre-Rade was a nice welcome into the University community.
“Minus the fact that it was super hot outside,” she said.
Sandeep Mangat is a head News editor at The Daily Princetonian.
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Undergraduate students passed four referenda last fall with at least 65 percent of votes for a variety of issues, including divestment from weapons manufacturers, dissociation from fossil fuel companies, improving standards for student workers, and instituting a pass/D/fail option for language classes.
But several months after the vote, University administrators have indicated that the referenda will not necessarily be implemented — and the student sponsors say they are unclear on where their proposals currently stand.
“It’s very much behind closed doors. [There’s] no transparency at all,” said Anna Buretta ’27, the sponsor of Referendum No. 3, which advocated for fossil fuel dissociation.
At a meeting of the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) in February, University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 referred to the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) student referenda as “something that the student government created” and emphasized that the referenda are “not part of something that is a part of University administrative processes.” The CPUC includes students, faculty, and staff as well as top administrators like Eisgruber and Vice President for Campus Life W. Rochelle Calhoun.
University spokesperson Jennifer Morrill referred The Daily Princetonian to Eisgruber’s comments in response to questions about the status of the referenda.
Despite having no binding power over University policy, USG referenda have a long history on Princeton’s campus, often acting as a driving force behind campus discourse and, in some cases, producing tangible change.
For example, a November 2020 referendum that called for fossil fuel divestment passed with 82 percent approval among students. Two years later, in September 2022, the Board of Trustees voted to dissociate from 90 fossil fuel companies, including major players like Exxon Mobil Corp. and NRG Energy Inc (although late last year, the University said it would accept some research funding with fossil fuel companies previously subject to dissociation).
Some referenda have been more contentious, and less successful in promoting change. The Caterpillar referendum, for example, which called on the University to halt the usage of Caterpillar construction equipment, passed the student body vote in 2022 according to the rules of the USG. However, USG later upheld an appeal contesting the efficacy of the vote, choosing not to move forward with a recommendation to the University to implement the Caterpillar referendum.
Position papers drafted by the USG Senate — which outlined students’ stances on each of the referenda — were sent to University administrators on Jan. 26, as required for successful referenda.
In a written statement to the ‘Prince,’ USG President Enzo Kho ’26 and Vice President Aishwarya Swamidurai ’26 wrote that student referenda were “a meaningful mechanism for students to express their perspectives and advocate for issues they care about.” They added that USG’s main responsibility was to administer the referenda and effectively communicate the positions expressed — and that the USG Senate did not take a position on the “underlying referendum question(s).”
Bryce Springfield ’25, an organizer with the Young Democratic Socialists of America who contributed to portions of Referendum No. 2 — which advocated for improved employment standards for student workers — said that while he had met with administrators about the proposal, it was not necessarily the only end goal.
“The referendum process is a way to get people conscious about various issues,” he said. “Students do not have any democratic control over [the] University by any official means.”
These comments came amid growing frustration among progressive campus groups over the lack of administrative action on the referenda.
Buretta expressed her view on the relationship between the University and USG initiatives.
“I think that a university that thrives and prospers is one where the people running the university are in constant communication with the students,” she said. “If they’re essentially dismissing referenda then there’s literally no way for us to hold University officials accountable. And I don’t think that is a healthy dynamic.”
Kian Petlan is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) has convened an ad hoc committee to find independent legal resources for Princeton students following the passage of a resolution affirming free speech rights last week.
A day before the USG spring campaigning begins on April 7, the USG Senate also convened for its weekly meeting to hear presentations on the functions of the Movies Committee and the Committee on Campus and Community Affairs (CCA), as well as a presentation from Transportation and Parking Services (TPS).
USG President Enzo Kho ’26 began the weekly Sunday meeting by addressing the Civil Liberties Resolution. The resolution passed in an executive session following last week’s USG meeting.
The goals of the resolution are “affirming speech and due process rights,” “establishing resources for students impacted,” and “promoting civil discourse on campus.”
Kho explained that an ad hoc committee is being created to “research and compile [...] a list of independent legal resources to which students may be referred in case of legal action taken against them as a result of otherwise-protected expressive activity.”
The committee is chaired by Daniel Shaw ’25 and is active effective immediately. It will be dissolved on May 31, unless renewed.
Following the discussion on the resolution, Kevin Guilbault, Deputy Director of TPS, and Amanda Stevens, Assistant Director for Campus Engagement for TPS, gave a presentation on potential changes to campus transportation due to changes to class schedule times. TPS runs services like the TigerTransit bus service, the Car Share Program, TigerAccess and Bike Registration.
This upcoming fall, the class schedules will be adjusted to allow for 15-to-20-minute transition periods between classes, instead of the current 10-minute transition periods. While the TigerTransit change is under consideration, matching the bus schedule with class schedules and locations may prove difficult, according to Stevens.
“We are paying attention to what the impact [of the changing passing times] between classes will be," Stevens explained. "It is very difficult to time classes and specific locations, but ... we are working on figuring out how to balance some of those changes.”
Head officer of the USG Movies Committee Tierra Lewis ’25 then presented the weekly movie showings at the Garden Theater. She said that critically acclaimed movies, such as Oscar-nominated or winning films, are prioritized. Lewis also explained that student feedback is integrated into the selection process, with frequently requested movies and polls on their Instagram considered in the selection process. This Friday, the USG Movies Committee will show Crazy Rich Asians in collaboration with the Asian American Students’ Association.
Lewis noted that the committee’s budget proposal for next fall may include increased funding for screening more blockbuster movies, which cost more to feature, and increased free concessions. The current budget for the committee is $30,000 per semester.
On behalf of the Campus and Community Affairs Committee, Oscar Barrios ’27, Armaan Nemati ’27, and Yao Xiao ’28 highlighted past campus activities. For the spring semester, the committee has been allocated $50,000 for their events, which have included vouchers for meals at local restaurants and Tigers in Town.
They also shared that a total of 15 trips will have been offered by the end of the spring semester, an increase from the previous semesters. This past weekend, USG sponsored a trip to New York City for a coffee crawl and a trip to the Dodgers–Phillies game in Philadelphia.
USG Meetings are open for all students to attend and are held on Sundays from 5–6 p.m. in Robertson Hall 016.
Andrew Arthur is a staff News writer from London, England and typically covers USG, CPUC, Princeton’s institutional legacy and administrative matters.
Devon Rudolph is an associate News editor and staff Sports writer for the 'Prince.' She is from northern Virginia and typically covers student life and USG.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.In the first three months of their tenure, Undergraduate Student Government (USG) President Enzo Kho ’26 and Vice President Aishwarya Swamidurai ’26 have attempted to tackle a fundamental limitation of their positions.
“USG is only in the role for a year, right? And admins are there for 20-plus years,” Kho told The Daily Princetonian in a joint interview with Swamidurai.
Many of USG’s biggest policy changes — the reduction of mental health copays this summer, for example — have come through working closely with University administrators, career professionals who have a host of duties beside student government. For Kho, Swamidurai, and the rest of the Executive Committee, however, the terms only last one year.
Much of Kho’s work has focused on stewarding USG’s institutional memory. During USG meetings, he has highlighted his meetings with past USG presidents and pulled out anecdotes from the USG archives.
“We can only progress so much with our work if we also have a heavy root in our institutional memory,” Kho told the ‘Prince.’ “I’ve been very grateful that a lot of former presidents and former council chairs reached out to me. I was able to understand the context [of USG].”
“Every USG administration has done incredible work. The important thing to understand here is the timeline for change. Some of the initiatives and policies that we’re pursuing are obviously long-term changes,” Swamidurai said.
Kho recently met with University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 and Vice President for Campus Life Rochelle Calhoun, although the details of the meeting remain elusive.
In the most recent USG meeting, Kho explained that he and Swamidurai had received “lots of useful information [during the meeting] that will guide a lot of the work we can do in the next few weeks.”
“There’s a lot of behind the scenes of USG where each week there’s so many meetings with admin from different areas of campus,” Kho explained in an interview. “We make sure we’re representing students well in a way where we bring their concerns to the admin.”
Asked how frequently USG interfaces with administration, Kho and Swamidurai explained that leadership meets with administrators regularly — often weekly — and that many changes stem from these conversations.
“A lot of [policy changes] came from a lot of the conversations and meetings,” Kho told the ‘Prince.’
Swamidurai noted that most collaboration between USG and the University administration happens with the University vice presidents, such as Vice President for Campus Life Rochelle Calhoun. She also underscored that the USG meets with President Eisgruber at least twice a semester to update him about its work.
One of Kho’s main focuses under his administration is to make USG more outward-facing and accessible.
Kho said that the USG has been working regularly with the USG communications committee. He emphasized efforts such as “coffee chats through different [subcommittee] chairs,” pop-ups, and town halls, which aim to “give different platforms to the student body to engage with USG and admins.”
“A big part of USG capacity is being that bridge between the students and the admins,” Kho said. “I would say we’ve been on track in terms of making sure we keep that promise.”
Swamidurai echoed this sentiment. “An element of accessibility for USG is … the behind-the-scenes work in connecting student groups. If students reach out to us, right?” she said. “It’s really important that we respond and also bring them into conversations and let them know what’s going on, which I think has most certainly been the case.”
The newly formed Communications Committee, proposed and approved this semester, was designed to centralize messaging, manage the USG website, and improve internal coordination. Kho defended the committee’s purpose: “The reason why we wanted to form a communications committee is because [USG] actually was more bureaucratic.”
Referencing a disjointed structure for interfacing with one another, Kho stated that “there [wasn’t] that direct kind of communication [previously].”
Reflecting on his administration’s progress, Kho said, “We’re pretty fortunate and pretty happy that all the chairs, all the people in USG, are pretty engaged and active. I feel like USG’s work this year has been pretty much on track.” He added that having an engaged team allowed leadership to explore new ideas beyond the original platform.
Swamidurai emphasized that progress is more than new policy. “We came into USG, not just wanting to pursue specific initiatives but also just to connect with students. I think we’ve done that through this coffee chat model. We’ve heard great feedback from students.”
With Spring elections approaching, new budget proposals pending, and Lawnparties on the horizon, Kho and Swamidurai are focusing on continuity and clarity.
As Kho put it, “It’s really a team effort, and we’re pretty grateful that we have such a strong team.”
Andrew Arthur is a staff News writer from London, England and typically covers USG, CPUC, Princeton’s institutional legacy and administrative matters.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Senate convened for its second meeting of the Spring 2025 semester on Sunday, Feb. 16 to discuss a second budget review, a Project Board budget request, a Communications Committee Decision, and a review of Student Group Recognition Committee guideline changes.
The meeting began as usual with the Presidential Report from USG President Enzo Kho ’26. Kho opened the meeting with a quote from former USG president David Calone ’96. “A large part of our efforts will be geared toward proving to the students that the USG can and does make a difference in their lives,” Calone said in 1994.
Kho said that the Senate had finalized position papers on the referenda that passed in November. The position papers were sent to University administration, although Kho noted that the University is not obligated to provide formal responses. “Next week, we’ll be reaching out to the sponsors, and we’ll be scheduling one-to-one meetings with [the referenda sponsors],” he said.
Position papers are reports written by the USG that explain the position of the undergraduates as reflected in each referendum, outlining next steps for the USG Senate and recommendations for University administrators. They are typically written by various members of the Senate directly following the passage of referenda.
Following this, USG Treasurer Quentin Colón Roosevelt ’27 reported no changes to last week’s budget allocations and noted $53,000 remained unallocated. Roosevelt also mentioned that the USG still had $53,000 unallocated before the budget for the Spring 2025 semester was passed. There was not any discussion at this week’s meeting regarding the use of the unallocated funds.
Evan Callas ’27 outlined the goals for a new Communications Committee, including providing event photographers and a student engagement coordinator. However, Aly Rashid ’26 raised some concerns about increased bureaucracy within the organization, a sentiment that was not echoed by any other members of the Senate.
“While I understand the purpose of this, I want to raise the fact that we have so many sub-divisions in USG and I understand that it is a big thing to make the work that the USG does more communicable, but I don’t know what how having a communications committee set up is more beneficial,” Rashid expressed.
Student Group Recognition Committee (SGRC) chair Arosheny Puvanenthirarajah ’26 discussed changes to the SGRC structure. She explained that, for student groups, the period between the submission of documents to meet with the Senate and the actual meeting date has been extended to allow more time for review.
“That is just an effort to make sure that more student groups who actually plan things in advance, and have their documents ready, are able to meet with the Senate,” she explained.
Senior Developer and Co-President of Tiger Apps Joshua Lau ’26 introduced Tiger Apps, explaining its purpose, team structure, and accomplishments. Lau said that around 2,500 unique users use one of the 13 apps weekly and 95 percent of students annually.
“All of our infrastructure costs are fully supported by USG,” Lau added.
As the meeting neared its end, Daniel Shaw ’25, the U-Council Executive Committee Representative, explained that a new U-Council Chair will be elected to fill the vacancy that opened when then-U-Councilor Swamidurai took up her current position as Vice President at the start of this new year.
A motion was then passed to allow for a 10-minute executive session discussion, at which point the meeting was closed to the public, and media was asked to leave.
USG Meetings are open for all students to attend and are held on Sundays from 5–6 p.m. in Robertson Hall 016.
Andrew Arthur is a staff News writer, from London, England and typically covers USG, CPUC, Princeton's institutional legacy and administrative matters.
Correction: A previous version of this article said Enzo Kho ’26 claimed to be reaching out to University administrators. He actually claimed to be reaching out to referenda sponsors. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error. The piece has also been updated to better define the term “position paper.”
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Senate held its final meeting of the semester on Sunday, which featured updates from the past year. Reported achievements include the Mental Health Committee successfully reducing copays for mental health services, the Social Committee hosting one of the most expensive Lawnparties yet, and a continued trend of increasing election competition and turnout.
USG president Avi Attar ’25 presided over the final meeting, opening the floor for members to share their thoughts as the semester drew to a close.
The meeting opened with U-Council co-chairs Daniel Shaw ’25 and Aishwarya Swamidurai ’26, who discussed their proposed amendments to the freedom of expression, student privacy, and investigation protocols within Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities. Swamidurai is the USG vice president-elect.
This year also saw a ballooning budget, with USG spending $592,000 in this semester. This comes after the Spring 2023 vote to double the activities fee to $95.90, the first increase since 1996. Last semester’s budget was $656,047.
Treasurer Uma Fox ’26, who ran an unsuccessful bid for USG president in the Winter 2024 elections, told the Senate, “I think all these numbers are testament that it was a good choice to raise the student activities fee.”
Despite this budget surge, Projects Board funding ran out before the end of last semester due to an uptick in funding requests. At the time, Fox told the ‘Prince’ that USG was trying to determine the “cause” of the increase in demand.
Social Committee chair and USG president-elect Enzo Kho ’26 recapped high-profile events such as Lawnparties, First Day of Classes celebrations, and Dean’s Date festivities across the past year. According to Kho, USG spent $280,000 on Fall Lawnparties, among the most expensive in Princeton history.
Academics Committee chair Vivian Bui ’26, who led a campaign for a referendum calling on the University to allow language classes to be taken Pass/D/Fail, highlighted the committee’s support for staggered final assessments. This move has resulted in the end of Dean’s Date as we know it, slated to take into effect in Spring 2025.
The Mental Health Committee also saw a significant win this year, with chair Meera Kochhar ’26 highlighting her committee’s work to reduce copays for mental health services.
Genevieve Shutt ’26 of the Campus and Community Affairs (CCA) Committee highlighted events, ranging from trips to the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade to funding support for the local farmers’ market.
The Wellness Programming working group, Athletics working group, Transit working group, Sustainability Committee and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee only discussed ongoing or upcoming initiatives.
Elections chair Alex Sorgini ’26 reflected on engagement in this year’s elections, which saw 111 candidates across the fall, winter, and spring election cycles and a 62 percent turnout in the first-year council races, which was higher than the 53 percent turnout in the general election. More than half of undergraduates voted in the most recent election, an increase from the approximate 40 percent turnout from Winter 2023.
Sorgini also emphasized that all elected positions during the most recent election were contested. “If you recall, last winter was the first time that every position was contested in a very long time,” he said. “So maintaining that interest for a second year is very notable.”
The Senate will reconvene in the spring to build on its progress and address ongoing student concerns. More details will be announced about the location and time of future meetings.
Alena Zhang is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) Senate met via Zoom on the Sunday following Thanksgiving Break to review next steps for the referenda that were passed in the recent election, hear a presentation on Title IX procedures, and approve a Social Committee budget request for a Dean’s Date celebration. The meeting was the second-to-last under current president Avi Attar ’25, before president-elect Enzo Kho ’26 takes over.
The four referenda that undergraduates passed last week, which advocated for enhanced employment standards for undergraduate workers, fossil fuel disassociation, pass/D/fail options for lower-level language classes, and the University’s divestment from weapons manufacturer, were all passed under the USG’s advisory power. In the meeting, USG representatives discussed the requirement that they now write position papers based on the referenda. These position papers will include an explanation of the official position of the undergraduates as stated in the referendum resolution, action steps for the USG Senate, and recommendations for other relevant University or student groups.
The representatives will choose members to write the position papers over winter break and turn them in by the start of next semester.
The Senate voted to close the public portion of the meeting and enter executive session before discussing the referenda. However, due to a miscommunication, Senate members did not request that reporters from The Daily Princetonian exit.
Prior to the meeting entering executive session, Director of Gender Equity and Title IX Administration Randy Hubert led the presentation about Title IX, addressing the formal grievance process, myths and misconceptions regarding Title IX, the alternate resolution process, common terms, and confidentiality for students.
Hubert’s presentation initially concentrated on the importance of mandatory reporting. “For undergraduate students it’s Residential College Advisors and Community Living Advisors who are mandatory reporters,” she said. “The mandatory reporting requirement really has two goals. One is to ensure that the impacted individual consistently receives accurate information about resources and reporting options that are available to them, and that they have access to supportive measures.”
“The Title IX office is a clearinghouse for all those reports of sexual misconduct. Someone who’s experienced sexual misconduct may not be aware of a pattern of that behavior, but my office would be aware of that, and if there’s a need for the university to intervene based on a concern about the safety of the campus community, that reporting requirement allows us to have enough information to be able to do that when appropriate,” Hubert added.
The presentation then shifted towards the formal grievance process, which is an official investigation and adjudication of allegations of sexual misconduct which involves official investigators who collect information through interviews and documents. Hubert clarified some misconceptions that surround the investigation process.
“There are two ways that investigations start,” she said. “Almost always, they start because the impacted student chooses to file a formal complaint, which initiates an investigation. In very limited circumstances, my boss, who is Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity Michele Minter can initiate an investigation if she has a concern about safety to the University community, but that’s never done without consulting with the impacted student.” Hubert added that there is no set amount of evidence of misconduct that is needed to move forward with an investigation.
In the case that the formal process results in no finding as to whether University policy was violated, the office also facilitates an alternate resolution process. Speaking about this process, Hubert commented, “We try to give students as much agency as possible to decide where to report and what resources to use. As I mentioned before, there are limited circumstances when a Title IX investigation would be initiated without a student wanting to proceed. There’s always consultation with the student before that happens, and we never force a student to be a complainant.”
The Senate also voted to grant the Social Committee’s budget request of $4,000.  The funds will be used for lighting equipment for this fall’s Dean’s Date celebration, one of the Social Committee’s signature events.
Andrew Arthur is a News contributor for the ‘Prince’ from London.
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: A previous version of this story stated that USG did not request that observers exit the meeting when they voted to go into executive session. In fact, USG asked some observers to leave, but did not request the same of the ‘Prince’ reporters present. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.On Jan. 13, Princeton University Health Services (UHS) officially relocated to Frist Health Center (FHC). The new location is north of Goheen Walk, near the old McCosh Health Center.
The construction of Frist Health Center is part of the University’s efforts to bolster healthcare services for members of the Princeton community.
“McCosh Health Center was built in 1925 at a time when healthcare delivery systems were entirely different than those of today, and Princeton had many fewer students,” UHS Director Janet Finnie ’84 wrote to The Daily Princetonian. “Frist Health Center is larger, but is also redesigned to support efficient and effective healthcare delivery.”
When walking into the lobby of FHC, visitors are greeted by a large open space with tall windows. The building itself is a mix of past and present, with the more modern exterior built around some of the old brick buildings that already existed.
“I was surprised by how big it was and how much natural light there was inside,” Angie Challman ’25 told the ‘Prince’ in an interview.
“Frist Health Center was designed to create a warm, welcoming, and inviting environment for students,” Finnie wrote to the ‘Prince.’ “No matter what entrance you use to enter the building, you will experience a soaring, light-filled atrium and the Isabella McCosh Garden, which utilizes biophilic design concepts to increase student and occupant connectivity to the natural environment.”
Finnie explained that FHC was designed with sustainability features, such as using timber to sequester carbon that would otherwise be released back into the atmosphere.
While the construction of the building was deliberate, some students were not impressed with FHC’s outward appearance.
“It looks like a dining hall,” remarked Zhuolin Xiang GS.
“I went inside yesterday, and it was really modern and pretty,” Ladan Abdullahi ’28 said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ “It doesn’t really fit the aesthetic of the rest of the college, but it’s pretty nice inside.”
For others, the new building brought greater convenience. FHC includes several new amenities that McCosh Health Center did not have, such as the new intercom system that allows students to talk with a nurse after hours about any problems that may arise.
“I had to get an ice pack for a friend the other day, and it was after hours, so I just went to the intercom system, and it was really efficient,” Yiling Li ’26 told the ‘Prince.’
Li discussed the difficulty in solidifying a same-day appointment in the old McCosh Health Center, telling the ‘Prince’ that, in contrast, “[FHC] was easier.”
When discussing the improvements made for FHC, Finnie remarked that the new building is equipped with “private rooms and bathrooms for overnight patients in the infirmary, a striking student lounge, a yoga/meditation contemplative space, a new multipurpose room that will be a shared resource for campus partners, and more.”
“The number of offices for counselors was increased, as were the number of exam rooms available to serve students,” she added.
While FHC provides Princeton students and faculty on campus with an upgraded facility for health services, the center’s opening was not an event that all on campus were aware of.
In a campus-wide email sent on Dec. 5, Finnie and UHS Executive Director John Kolligian Jr. announced key dates related to the opening of FHC, with the relocation of UHS officially taking place on Jan. 13.
Though students and faculty returned to campus from winter recess soon after the reopening, UHS did not send out a reminder to the campus population.
“I honestly forgot the new health center was opening,” Challman explained. “I thought [the building] was the new res[idential] college.”
“I just found out [about FHC opening] a few days ago,” Li added.
For students looking to take advantage of the new and expanded services offered, the UHS website has been updated to reflect the changes.
The FHC is open Monday through Friday from 7:45 a.m. to 4:45 p.m.
Doug Schwartz is a staff News writer and an associate Sports editor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Annapolis, Md., and typically covers town and gown, facilities and housing, and health for News.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.When we get back at the end of January, the new Frist Health Center will be open. The new space will be twice as big as the current McCosh infirmary. But we have not yet received word of additional providers being hired nor counseling services that will be on offer.
This is a huge oversight.
With the promise of a new, larger University Health Center, the University must accordingly prioritize expanding the staff at Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS) to properly meet the mental health needs of the student body.
According to The Daily Princetonian’s 2024 senior survey, nearly 75 percent of last year’s seniors considered seeking out counseling during their time at Princeton. Given the current 29 treatment staff members and Princeton’s enrollment of 9,050 graduate and undergraduate students, this would mean that there is approximately one counselor available for every 234 Princetonians who are considering counseling.
From a logistics standpoint, meeting this level of student need with the present counseling staff is not possible. As a result, it’s unsurprising that CPS wait times have previously been the target of criticism, with designated wait times for initial consultations taking up to five days or longer to schedule and with follow-up appointments often taking an additional two weeks. It is no surprise that CPS describes their counseling as “short-term.”
For students who need longer-term care, the University has contacts to providers outside of CPS, but this option is limited logistically: The campus health center is directly in the middle of campus, convenient to everyone. Meanwhile, off-campus appointments may take time to go to, requiring students to take Uber or Lyft, albeit heavily subsidized, trips to appointments. Although telehealth appointments are a strong option, some students prefer or need in-person appointments, which are most conveniently provided within CPS.
Moreover, counselors outside of CPS may be less well-versed in dealing with issues students face specifically at the University. This contrasts with University counselors who pride themselves on “[supporting] the psychological well-being of the Princeton University Community … available at no cost to currently enrolled Princeton students.”
If the purpose of CPS is to treat the student body free of charge, there should be at least as many counselors available as students who are in need. Otherwise, students may be unable to find a counselor well-versed in University student problems specifically or be unable to front the cost of meeting with them on a regular basis.
There isn’t often a better opportunity to fill this gap than the new Frist Health Center, which promises to better treat the health care needs of students on campus. At this moment, there have been no substantive remarks on what the exact role the health center will play in shaping CPS on campus beyond simply being its new location.
Campus expansion, including the new health center, has followed class expansion. But when it comes to health, it’s not just the square footage that we need — it’s the providers. The University should take this opportunity to dedicate resources to expanding counselor availability on campus. This development is allowing the University to set the record straight on mental health at Princeton, after previous unproductive remarks and little change. The University can begin to treat mental health at Princeton as what it is: a crisis.
The construction of the Health Center should not be seen as a crowning achievement of the University unless it comes with a concrete promise to make mental health care more accessible for students at the University. Beyond continuing to reduce financial barriers that prevent students from accessing counseling off-campus, additional counseling staff must come with the relocation.
Students should not worry about waiting weeks to meet with a counselor on the short-term when they are struggling with their mental health. There should be no need for students to be forced to seek counseling off-campus with a fee. These changes are feasible and would mark true progress towards bettering the health of students on campus. The opening of the new Frist Health Center can mark the beginning of this era — if the University wants.
Davis Hobley is a columnist for the ‘Prince,’ and a member of the Class of 2027 who intends to major in Neuroscience. He hails from Rochester, Mich. and can be reached by email at dh2172[at]princeton.edu or his personal Instagram @davis_20.23.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.Plans to move University Health Services from McCosh Health Center to the still-unbuilt Frist Health Center has led to speculation about what will occupy the vacant space. While the University has yet to announce an official plan for McCosh, students have speculated on possible uses for the site. Graduate students have shown particular interest in the building, citing a current lack of designated campus spaces for graduate students.
In November 2023, the University announced a plan to replace McCosh Health Center following a “major gift” from Dr. Thomas Frist Jr. Construction of the new facility is expected to be completed in 2025.
In an interview with The Daily Princetonian, Amari Tankard GS, the president of the Graduate Student Government (GSG), said that the GSG talked with the administration about a graduate student center back in 2019, but, since then, talks have stalled. She cited the decentralization of graduate student spaces and lack of easy access to meals as the main issues leading to these desires for a dedicated space for graduate students.
Tankard compared the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) office space in Frist Campus Center to the GSG office in the basement of Campus Club. She said the GSG space frequently has accessibility and sanitation issues.
She added that the facilities workers at Campus Club use the GSG office as their lunch room. “I’ve had meetings in there where they're just sitting on the other side of the table eating lunch …  It’s a hot mess.” Tankard also said that there were sometimes mice in the office.
Tankard shared that she complained to the head of Facilities at Campus Club and the former Assistant Dean for Student Affairs but nothing was done to address the issues.
“When the University is made aware of concerns by GSG, we work to quickly address those concerns and will continue to do so,” University Spokesperson Michael Hotchkiss wrote in an email to the ‘Prince.’
Two other graduate students also spoke to the ‘Prince’ in an interview, expressing their support for a graduate student center. David Whyman GS mentioned how “the undergrads and grads are people at different stages in their life,” and that it would be better to have a specific space for graduate students.
Rose Guingrich GS echoed these sentiments and shared that “Frist student center doesn't seem very grad student-oriented.” Guingrich and Whyman both hope to have a space for offices and meetings, and cited the lack of permanent office spaces in certain departments and social areas to build community.
While originally conceived as a space for the entire student body and faculty, Frist Campus Center is known today as a hub for undergraduate students. The center hosts the USG office, McGraw Learning Center, Frist Theater, cafés, and several other gathering spaces for student activities. Frist also draws in students on the unlimited meal plan, largely underclassmen, for late meal.
Tankard echoed many similar desires along with spaces such as “cafés, convention centers, perhaps even like a large room for speaker events [and] a playroom for children [of graduate students].”
She adds that grad students who are on campus “24 hours a day” have very few spaces to eat which she says is especially difficult because graduate students live far off-campus.
Last spring, Princeton Graduate Student United (PGSU) cited affordable housing deficiencies as a major issue for graduate students. With the cost of living in Princeton being increasingly inaccessible, many graduate students have been forced to find accommodations in surrounding areas.
Anthony Taboni, a graduate student in the politics department, claimed in an interview with the ‘Prince’ last spring that he and his partner searched for four months, offering six months of rent upfront, and adding his mother as a co-signer, to no avail. He claimed that he reached out to the housing office, but their suggestions were not feasible. In the end, Taboni wound up renting a one-bedroom apartment in nearby Plainsboro, N.J., for $2,000 per month.
At Harvard University, Tankard explained, her colleagues have a different experience with individual offices, a convention space, and a conference room.
Tankard expressed that she felt these differences in treatment “[speak] to what is important to the school at the time, and I wish that we had a little more of an important space to be in.”
While “the Graduate School supports the idea of a Graduate Student Center and is continuing to collaborate with the GSG and other partners to explore future options,” University Spokesperson Jennifer Morrill wrote in an email to the 'Prince' that the University “will consider the viability of a wide range of potential uses.”
Another idea students have proposed for the space is a campus pub. At a USG meeting last fall, former USG president Stephen Daniels ’24 named McCosh Health Center as a potential location for a pub.
“Because we are still in the planning phase, any locations for the potential events are still being determined,” he wrote in an email to the ‘Prince’ at the time.
As of now, it remains unclear whether these wishes will be granted. Morrill added that future plans for McCosh Health Center have not been initiated yet.
Claire Meng is a contributing News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Whether for routine checkups or “frosh flu” treatment, many Princeton students will visit University Health Services (UHS) at the McCosh Health Center at least once. By contrast, far fewer people will visit Princeton Medical Center (PMC), but those who do are often in for a nasty surprise — a much higher medical bill.
This is not an unfortunate inevitability, but rather a direct result of the University’s policy decisions. Princeton’s Student Health Plan (SHP) was foundationally designed around covering coinsurance (a percentage of healthcare costs) rather than copays (a fixed amount) and includes comparatively lower reimbursement on out-of-network care. The University should switch from a coinsurance plan to a copay to reduce undue financial burdens on students and bolster existing emergency funds.
The SHP is by far the most common health insurance plan on campus. All current graduate students are automatically enrolled, and undergraduates who do not have a health care plan that is deemed satisfactory by the University’s rigorous standards are required to enroll. Many students do not qualify and are consequently forced to enroll in the SHP  — even Medicaid is not considered a satisfactory plan despite being the second-most popular form of medical insurance in America (behind only employment-based coverage). In total, the SHP covers 46 percent of undergraduates on campus, according to the Office of Communications.
For the majority of Princeton students, the SHP provides exceptional coverage if you stay within UHS. As of the 2024–25 academic year, it costs $3,510 to receive coverage — this is incredibly affordable considering that the national monthly average premium cost is $1,178, which adds up to over $14,000 annually. Although this new cost represents a $360 increase from last year, the University adjusts financial aid in order to ensure that the cost does not inhibit a student’s ability to enroll at Princeton. Students who receive full financial aid do not incur any additional costs through SHP. The plan, accessed through Aetna’s student insurance, is fairly comprehensive and covers the majority of various student expenses such as checkups, laboratory tests, some prescription drug costs, and vaccination. When these services are accessed through the McCosh Health Center, many are even free.
However, the SHP isn’t perfect — prioritizing coinsurance, rather than a copay presents a challenge outside of standard services. Copays are fixed out-of-pocket costs for each service covered by insurance. In comparison, coinsurance forces individuals to pay a percentage of their healthcare costs. To put this in perspective, consider this: if you receive a service that costs $20 and you have a plan with a $20 copay, you would pay $20. In comparison, if you have a plan with 90 percent coinsurance, you would pay two dollars. But what if you were to require a service that costs $2000? In that case, you would still pay $20 with the copay plan; however, you would need to pay $200 with the coinsurance plan.
Although coinsurance is an acceptable policy for most standard medical expenses, it can come back to bite people when they seek out emergency services, which are far more expensive on average. In particular, New Jersey ranks as the number one state for Emergency Department visit costs, with the average bill ranging around $3,750.
This cost is exacerbated by the fact that emergency services are often much more likely to be accessed through out-of-network providers, and given that the SHP has only 70 percent coinsurance for out-of-network care, students could be on the hook for 30 percent of the cost even after they have paid the deductible in full. As a result, a single visit could easily cost well over $1,000 in out-of-pocket expenses for a student if the services happen to be provided by an out-of-network provider, especially in cases in which students are receiving care in emergency situations and they don’t have the chance to inquire about their health provider’s network. Furthermore, it could be incredibly difficult for students to know whether an emergency services provider is in- or out-of-network. 20 percent of Americans who go to an in-network hospital are still given a bill for out-of-network care from a doctor and 50 percent of ambulance rides generate an out-of-network bill.
Although these costs may seem as though they would be rare or isolated, these costs can hit Princeton students in unexpected ways. During the academic year, students need care from professionals UHS does not have or students who are in a condition that could be life-threatening are often sent to Princeton Medical Center (PMC). Unlike UHS, services provided at PMC are not free and, based on the coverage provided by the SHP, the costs of a single trip via ambulance to PMC can be significant, even nearing the $1,000 mark if the provider happens to be out-of-network. Additionally, being sent to PMC is no rarity. In cases of alcohol poisoning on campus, students will be sent off  to PMC in an ambulance, which may cost  as much as 400 dollars for the approximately 4 mile trip. In some cases, students could request not to be taken to PMC by ambulance, but then be charged hundreds of dollars involuntarily if their request is denied. With this knowledge, students who may be unable to pay such a cost out-of-pocket will likely feel pressure to not seek medical attention — or be forced to receive emergent care they can not reasonably afford when they lack the capacity to consider those costs.
The University has made steps to address the problem of these out-of-pocket costs through various supplementary initiatives that students can apply to and be awarded money to cover their medical costs, with the Special Needs Fund being one of the main initiatives to date — an emergency fund for students who find themselves with unexpected financial needs. However, these measures are inadequate. For example, the Special Needs Fund is critically capped at only $300 allotted per student over the course of an academic year, and other resources, such as the Dean’s Emergency Fund, generally only grant up to $500. For some students, the limited nature of this support could be devastating. For reference, the cap for individual expenditures on the SHP is $5,000 for medical and $1,350 for prescriptions, which adds up to  $6,350 in combined costs. A small grant of $500 wouldn’t go a long way in covering such expenses for students faced with high individual expenditures, forcing students into difficult financial positions.
It doesn’t need to be this way. Some of Princeton’s peer institutions have done a much better job at alleviating the financial burden of an unexpected medical expense. For instance, Brown University provides free ambulance services to students with medical emergencies. Princeton can and should follow models like this.
In order to prevent health-care related financial catastrophes, the University should alter the student health plan to provide increased coverage for all medical services. They should take on a copay model, rather than a coinsurance model, in order to decrease the risk of a student becoming stuck with thousands of dollars in medical costs on the University’s watch. Moreover, they should allocate additional dollars to funds like the Special Needs Fund to help students who have multiple health emergencies over the course of the academic year. The University has the resources to provide better support to students with medical emergencies — there’s no excuse for their inaction.
Davis Hobley is a columnist for the ‘Prince,’ and a member of the Class of 2027 who intends to major in Neuroscience. He hails from Rochester, Mich. and can be reached by email at dh2172[at]princeton.edu or his personal Instagram @davis_20.23.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.To all the buildings I’ve never been in before: I’m sorry. Sometimes, I lose myself walking the same paths I’ve walked a hundred times before. It’s so easy. McDonnell Hall to McCosh Hall. McCosh to Frist Campus Center. Frist to New South Building. New South to Whitman College. I get caught up in the day-to-day, retracing my steps between the usual places. I know the stairs of Frist well from my early visits to late meal, the package room, and the quiet third floor. I have walked the basement passages of Whitman that will lead you from dorm to dining hall. I have spent hours in New South covering the whiteboard walls in diagrams and outlines. But you, you nondescript building on my weekly route — I’m sorry I didn’t give you a chance.
In one of my favorite childhood book series, the Septimus Heap series by Angie Sage, there’s a ghost named Alther Mella. He can talk, impart wisdom, and spy on the living by flying around and passing through walls. But there’s a catch: He cannot visit places he hadn’t been to in his living life. He’s trapped within the bounds of his old haunts.
It’s only a premise for a kids’ novel, but it stuck with me. What would it be like if I walked Princeton’s campus as a ghost? Wouldn’t it be terrible if I was stuck perpetually walking the same route up McDonnell to McCosh, and from McCosh to Frist? Or visiting the exact same bathroom or shower stall, just because I was a creature of habit during my time at Princeton? If I became a ghost right now, would I regret not exploring more?
There are moments when I’m seized by a sudden impetus to break out of my regular bounds. This campus is so small and so walkable that I ought to know every inch of it. Walk into every room. Touch every wall. Take a left turn instead of a right turn. Who knows what I’ll find? Once, in my freshman year, I stumbled across a secret garden tucked away in Butler College. It was like an outdoor grass amphitheater, with a spiraling stone wall tracing its way around. Overgrown with weeds, it looked like a place from a fairy book, hidden and untouched.
Later that year, my desperate need to finish my writing seminar paper drew me to a large glass building next to McCosh in search of the mysterious Architecture Library. There, ensconced in a bowl-shaped chair, I furiously typed out the last few pages of my paper to the distant sound of music on my headphones. I’ve never taken an architecture class. I probably never will. But nothing stopped me — no invisible boundary excluded entry for non-architecture students. In our four years, we have the opportunity to make every space our own. Why not take a chance?
To this day, the Architecture Library is one of my favorite spaces to finish an unfinished paper. When I crave natural light, I go to the Carl Icahn Laboratory, the soaring glass building bordering Poe Field, home to the molecular genomics program. Both are places I found while exploring new buildings, pushing away the anxiety that I’d stick out as an interloper. I’ve found that very few doors on campus are actually closed to undergraduates.
This fall, ever since I committed to a study abroad program for my junior spring, I’ve kept a personal bucket list: Work in every library on campus. See movies at the Princeton Garden Theatre. Go to a football game. Try every item on the menu at my eating club. I’ll still have senior year, but until then, I’m keen to soak up as much of campus as I can before I leave. I started going on morning walks with a friend to explore beyond campus. It’s surprising how little time it takes for the streets of this small town to become familiar.
And yet, sometimes, the strangest surprises come from places I think I know. By looking a little more closely, I discover something new. On one pass down the Frist stairs, I noticed that there were tiny names inscribed in faint orange font on the orange metal banners. On an underground walk to the Whitman dining hall, I noticed with some amusement that there was a giant, larger-than-life human skull locked in a cage between Fisher Hall and Wendell Hall.
And if I look even more closely, I find the marks of those who walked the campus before me. The concrete pillars of the Architecture Library tell a story; it’s written in faint pencil messages and lazy sketched doodles. On the wooden tables at PJ’s Pancake House, carved initials stand for scores of past students and visitors. They’re one way to leave a legacy — to prove that you came, you explored, and you changed a place just as it changed you. In them, I see generations of past students leaving their footprints on this campus, speaking to us across time: I was here. I was here. I was here.
Jessica Wang is a member of the Class of 2026 and a staff writer for the Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at jessica.wang[at]princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As students leave home to attend the University, they’re faced with a variety of new steps. Throughout their undergraduate career, students grow accustomed to the new environment and the academic rigor of the University, make friends, and likely will have to adjust to a new medical provider on their own for the first time.
University Health Services (UHS), often referred to by students as ‘McCosh,’ is Princeton’s primary healthcare provider that provides medical, health, and wellness services to the University population. Among its departments are ‘Medical Services,’ which focuses on providing care related to physical health, ‘Counseling and Psychological Services’ (CPS), which provides mental health care, and ‘Health Promotion and Prevention Services,’ which works towards the prevention of alcohol and/or cannabis abuse.
In a series of interviews with a dozen undergraduates, The Daily Princetonian found that some students express dissatisfaction with McCosh in two categories: the ability to secure an appointment and the level of engagement that they received.
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ Dr. Melissa Marks, the Director of Medical Services at UHS, wrote, “We send surveys to every patient seen in Outpatient Medical Services, unless they have been seen and received a survey within the prior two weeks.” Marks described the scores as being “above the benchmark at other similar institutions,” with 94 percent of survey respondents being either “very satisfied or satisfied” with their visit in the current academic year.
Medical Services offers three types of care, including general/primary care, which addresses general medical concerns, chronic medical conditions, and good health, urgent care, which addresses acute illnesses and injuries that require prompt attention, and the infirmary, which is available for patients who need overnight or urgent care after-hours.
Three students, with the pseudonyms Eva, Nate, and Chris, were granted anonymity to discuss their medical experiences.
In the fall of 2022, Eva, an undergraduate, was scared about something being “fundamentally wrong with her body.” Experiencing irregular periods as a first-year, she went to UHS, seeking answers and treatment.
After she got an appointment, Eva saw multiple doctors for answers to why she was experiencing irregular periods. “I was losing blood at a concerning rate,” she said.
Four appointments, visits to two different medical professionals at UHS, and multiple lab tests did not deliver a diagnosis.
“After [UHS] could not figure out the cause, they just put me on birth control and said that all they could do is regulate the blood cycle,” she recalled.
Eva felt that UHS could have done better. To date, she does not know the source of her medical problem.
Eva’s concerns with UHS started with trying to secure an appointment. “I waited two weeks to get an appointment, which itself was quite stressful because of the nature of the reason I wanted to go to them,” Eva said.
To request a general/primary care or specialty medical appointment students have to call the UHS front desk. Primary care for health maintenance, a health concern for more than two weeks, or management of chronic illness and follow-up of a primary care appointment are also available to schedule online through the MyUHS portal. Students have to call the front desk to book an urgent care appointment and can walk into the infirmary anytime after hours to seek care, though UHS does recommend calling beforehand.
Eva’s concerns over a lack of available appointments are shared by other students. Olivia Johnson ’26 had an infected finger last semester. “When I went [to UHS], the doctor asked me why I didn’t come earlier,” she said. “I had been trying to get an appointment for several days. They were fully booked.”
Another student, Uma Menon ’24, said that she had a persistent cough for a month in Fall 2022. She tried getting an appointment once before fall break, but the waiting time for an appointment that fit with her schedule was around five days.
“I decided to wait [the cough] out and try again after fall break,” she said. Uma was able to get an appointment after fall break and didn’t choose to seek outside care during the break. She instead chose to take medicine at home.
Marks responded to concerns over a lack of appointments.
She wrote that, “[UHS’s] practice goal is to see all patients with acute illness within 48 hours,’’ after it follows a practice of “triage,” wherein a nurse assesses the acute problem that a patient has and then decides whether the student should be “seen immediately, seen that day, seen within 48 hours,” or “managed with supportive care at ‘home’ with close nurse follow-up.”
Marks explained that UHS’s functioning was changed by the pandemic, with COVID-19 forcing them to shift their practice to allow their clinic “to triage and assure appropriate pathways for patients.”
“We are shifting back to pre-pandemic practice. Online appointment making is now available for all appointments except for acute care, which still requires an initial nurse triage,” she wrote.
Triage, Marks said, is critical for medical practitioners to prioritize medical cases. “It provides a way to make sure that students in most need are seen and cared for immediately, whether it be by UHS or a nearby emergency department. To not engage in some sort of initial assessment of students that gauges when a student should be seen might lead to a student not getting the care they need in a timely way,” she wrote.
Students sometimes felt that the triage process led to an underestimation of the seriousness of their illnesses.
“During midterms last fall, I had flu-like symptoms — fever, a cold, and a sore throat — and called McCosh to see if they could see me,” Kira Newbert ’26 said. “Their response was that they could not see me because they were only seeing ‘really sick students,’ implying I was not sick enough.”
When asked about whether she had the time to provide a sufficient explanation of her condition to the nurse on-call, Newbert replied, “Not really. They didn’t ask any follow-up questions about my symptoms.”
“I ended up being so sick that I had to miss my bio midterm,” Newbert recalled.
Newbert is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Marks wrote that “any student who feels that their wait is too long or has a different concern and wishes to provide feedback may do so” at UHS’s feedback website.
“In addition, a link to our grievance procedures can be found on the UHS feedback page,” Marks wrote.
Students also felt that appointment schedules didn’t match a Princeton schedule. “For most of the week, [students] have classes until the evening, and there are no time slots for an appointment post-5 p.m. during the week,” Johnson said.
Newbert echoed the concerns. “Especially when students are already so busy, it can be very stressful to try and find an available time slot,” she said.
Eva felt that having more available doctors and nurses on call may help. “The appointments they had did not fit with my schedule so the process stretched out for weeks, which is not convenient when you have a pertinent health issue. So, they definitely need to have more doctors available to solve this problem,” she said.
UHS declined to comment on requests for data on number of doctors on-call on an average working day, the number of doctors per department, or the funding that each department receives. Marks noted that there is a physician on call for UHS 24/7.
On a school morning, Chris, an undergraduate, woke up feeling discomfort due to a slight swelling in his neck. He went about his day, thinking the pain would disappear. When it did not, he went to UHS seeking care. He saw two nurses, but no doctor on-call, and ultimately left the health center without any answers or treatment.
As opposed to others who waited days for their appointments, Chris was seen immediately. He went to the infirmary outside open hours, which are from 8 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Monday to Friday, and Saturday from 8 a.m. to 3:45 p.m. “I went to McCosh in the middle of the night, so it was clearly a significant issue,” he said.
There were no doctors on-call, but nurses checked his vitals. “They could not tell me why I had the swelling or what I could do in the immediate term to make it better,” he said.
Other students expressed frustration with their experiences talking to the medical professionals.
“[UHS staff] were kind and compassionate in our face to face interactions, but it didn’t feel like they were willing to take the time to understand what was wrong,” Eva said.
Nate, an undergraduate, described inconsistent guidance. He said that he had a headache, cough, and a sore throat for about two weeks before making an appointment. “The doctor told me to continue taking Mucinex and Ibuprofen and said that they would prescribe me antibiotics in three days if the current treatment didn’t work,” Nate said. However, when he went back after three days, a different doctor said that they do not prescribe antibiotics for people with the symptoms he was experiencing.
Vasudha Bharathram ’26 recounted two negative experiences with McCosh.
“I had a 103 degree fever and decided to book an appointment with McCosh. I got an appointment after two days and they just gave me a packet of salt and told me to gargle with it, running no tests,” she recalled.
“More recently, I had a cold, and they gave me a COVID test,” Bharatham added. “It had expired three weeks ago.”
In response to these concerns, Marks wrote that UHS practitioners follow a two-step process of diagnosis and follow-up. During diagnosis, they try to deduce “what an illness is not, and what it may be.” They also try to assess whether “a student is in danger or is safe to continue self-care and monitoring of symptoms.” Follow-up occurs either through a telephone or an appointment made in the clinic.
She explained that practitioners cannot be fully successful in diagnosis. Rather, they tell patients, “[t]his is what I am thinking you have, but time will tell, or the response to the medication we prescribed will give us information, or let’s check back in a few days and by that time the illness may clarify itself.”
“Diagnosis is a process that often requires time. Students generally come to us in the initial stages of their illness,” said Marks.
“What we can say at this point is often what an illness is not, and what it may be. We can also say whether a student is in danger or is safe to continue self-care and monitoring of symptoms,” she continued.
After their appointment, students are also sent the aforementioned post-appointment survey. Every student the ‘Prince’ interviewed, except one, said they received the survey.
In regards to the quality of providers, Marks wrote that UHS conducts “extensive ‘credentialing’ of healthcare providers, which involves verifying the providers’ education, training, licenses, internships/residency/fellowships, as well as conducting extensive background checks.”
Eva strongly believes that McCosh needs structural changes, specifically because of a lack of healthcare options. “It’s not just that I could not get the care I needed, but that they also didn’t refer me to anyone outside McCosh,” she said.
“Being a student on Cigna Health (the insurance Eva is on), getting access to an outside practitioner is really complex. I don’t quite know what the process is. It’s overwhelming — for the average student who is trying to take undergraduate classes and have a part-time job on top of that,” she added.
UHS provides a set of detailed documents on its Student Health Plan (SHP) section of the website, highlighting healthcare aspects covered for students, for dependents, referral and pre-certification requirements, and its preferred provider network, which is Aetna Student Health.
Eva called for UHS to provide an easy-to-understand explanation of outside care options covered by UHS. “The health insurance logistics are complex, and if not explained properly, can act as a barrier to you accessing care,” she said.
Eva is a low-income student, and she stressed that any problems with UHS affect low-income students the most. “For low-income students like me, there is a limited pool of money available as co-ops and insurance, so we really depend on McCosh,” she said.
“I don’t have the means to get access to outside care — no time, no car, and not many places covered by insurance. If McCosh is going to be my primary healthcare resource, they need to have everything,” she added.
Kaustubh Jain is a Features contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: This piece has been updated with further context from UHS administrators.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.“Scheduled to open in 2025, the Frist Health Center will help the University advance a culture of health and well-being on the Princeton campus,” brags Princeton’s announcement of its new health center. While more space devoted to mental health on campus is critical, we also need to dedicate more time to each student who comes in for treatment. Currently, for many students grappling with mental health issues, the brevity and non-continuity of counseling sessions offered — particularly the default of a 20-minute consultation, and the typical treatment at Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS) being “short-term” — falls dramatically short of what is required for genuine understanding and healing.
20-minute consultations, as they currently exist, may not be enough for many students to express their problems or build a bond with their therapist. Opening up to a therapist — a stranger when you meet them — demands courage. Revealing the inner-workings of our minds is no trivial matter, and people may need time to express their thoughts. Short encounters can leave students feeling more like case numbers than individuals with complex inner lives.
The current setup defaults students to biweekly meetings, but there is an option to meet more often.  In an email to the ‘Prince,’ University Director of Media Relations Jennifer Morrill said that CPS “typically see[s] students once every two weeks, but will see students more frequently than that depending on clinical needs.” If students cannot easily opt into once-a-week therapy, the two-week default stretches of time between appointments can disrupt the flow of therapy, which can make each session feel like starting anew rather than building on previous discussions. This fragmented approach to care undermines the essence of therapy as a journey of mutual exploration and discovery.
CPS’s current model disregards the amount of time students need to discuss their problems, requiring more than just consultations and two-week stretches between appointments. The well-intentioned but ultimately insufficient drop-in hours must also be revisited: drop-in hours are each thirty minutes with a therapist, which can feel dismissive. Last spring, they implemented one-time hourlong appointments, which is not what students need, either: we need lasting relationships with therapists. It’s understandable that CPS wants to provide stopgap measures like these but these steps can feel like a mere procedural formality rather than a step toward well-being. The difficult truth is that the University has to figure out how to provide the care that we need: sufficient session time and consistent support over at least the course of a whole semester or more.
For that matter, there is also a disconnect in CPS’s view of its role in long-term care. CPS communicates counseling at McCosh being “short-term” and expects students seeking continuous care to be refered out of the University system. This conception can undermine the student-therapist bond for the time that a student is seeing a CPS counselor. Evidence shows that having a trusting relationship with your therapist is significantly correlated with having better therapy sessions and that trust is important to the patient-therapist bond. When you know that your counseling at CPS is intended to be “short-term,” or that you will have to switch therapists soon, it makes it harder to create a bond with your current therapist. The discontinuity undermines the patient-therapist relationship.
What the University is doing on mental health right now is a step in the right direction but still does not address this need for a fuller relationship with therapists. President Eisgruber’s mention of an expanded CPS after the construction of the new health center has sparked a hopeful discourse. But why wait? Students with urgent mental health needs must be able to establish a long-term relationship with their providers. To do so, UHS must build the necessary infrastructure to allow for more regular and consistent sessions. This necessitates hiring more staff in the short term. With a larger team of mental health professionals, CPS can provide more long-term support over the whole semester, allowing students to build deeper relationships with their providers.
Improved mental health assistance is urgent. Each student loss serves as a reminder of the need for a more compassionate and understanding system. Through hiring more staff, the frequency of therapy sessions can be expanded, which is crucial for addressing a range of needs and strengthening the bond between students and therapists. This, in turn, boosts confidence in the effectiveness of CPS. By prioritizing mental health, the University can demonstrate a profound commitment to the well-being of its student body. We must take steps now and lay the groundwork for a future where every student can thrive and feel supported by a culture that values and actively supports their mental health.
Maria Luisa Vieira Parada is a sophomore from São Paulo, Brazil, intending to major in physics. She can be reached at mparada@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Initially started as a student enterprise in 1890 and formally established as a campus cooperative in 1905, the Princeton University Store (U-Store) is an iconic go-to place for the campus community and a prominent outlet for showcasing Princeton’s identity—perhaps embodied by its best-selling gift, the Einstein Tiger plush toy.
Operating from two main locations — one on campus near Blair Arch and another on Nassau Street — each address serves distinct purposes. The Nassau Street location focuses primarily on apparel and accessories, while the campus location offers a broader range of merchandise, including a smaller set of apparel, stationery items like notebooks and folders, and groceries and snacks. The Daily Princetonian analyzed sales data of the U-Store across both locations from the first quarter of the fiscal calendar, spanning from June 30 to September 28, 2024.
The top three departments with the biggest contributions to the U-Store’s total sales this quarter were Men’s Apparel, Grocery, and Women’s Apparel, and they accounted for 26 percent, 16.9 percent, and 14.4 percent of total sales, respectively.
When deciding which new items to merchandise, the U-Store develops personas for different groups of customers—namely for students, alumni, visitors, and the community at large—to define their tastes and preferences. They keep up with the market, whether it is through talking to vendors and manufacturers or trying products that companies want to try with them, to understand the Princeton community better.
“We look at how the consumer is responding to things that may be more what we call traditional in their design and look and feel,” U-Store President and CEO June Archer ’85 said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ “And then we also want to be bringing in things that are more, what we would say, trend-based or contemporary because we have a lot of young people here, and they look for modern styling.”
“We have to be financially solvent,” she said. “So as much as we want to do all of the fun things, we have to be able to sustain the business so that we provide services for our members.”
While the U-Store is constantly working on introducing new products for the audiences, Archer recognizes a limitation, as with any other business.
“We’re constantly trying to make sure that those students that are on campus every day feel like we are a destination for their needs,” Archer said. “And the alumni, when they come to visit, we want to make certain that they are able to express themselves.”
Items in the U-Store are categorized into two main divisions: Insignia and Campus. The Insignia division focuses on Princeton-branded merchandise and includes Men’s Apparel, Women’s Apparel, Kid’s Apparel, Accessories, and Gifts. The Accessories category comprises items such as totes, magnets, and umbrellas, and the Gifts category includes novelty items like plush tigers and mugs. The Campus division provides practical and general items, Grocery includes food and beverage items, and General Merchandise features dorm essentials and everyday items like cleaning supplies.
The top three selling items by quantity during this quarter were all within the Campus Division — specifically the Grocery department — with bananas leading sales with 2,134 units sold, followed by Smart Water Sport (700 ml) with 1,180 sold and Smart Water (1L) with 968 sold.
“If you look at it unit-wise, we would definitely say that students are where we see so much activity because they’re in the campus store buying bananas and mango slices and other consumable products,” Archer said.
The quantity of Apparel sold was relatively small compared to items in other departments, as the top ten selling items in Men’s and Women’s Apparel categories sold only between 40 and 83 units each. However, each of these top ten items made over $2,100 in retail sales. This higher revenue came from the higher price point of apparel, which compensated for the lower sales volume.
Zhennan Zhao ’28 said that the U-Store is an integral part of the dorm life at Princeton.
“[The U-Store] provides a lot of necessities that students need—food, clothing, basic items that people need in their rooms,” Zhao said.
The convenience of the U-Store was cited as a possible reason for the top selling items being within the Grocery department.
“You could buy something on Amazon and have it shipped, and it would probably be cheaper, but it takes time to ship, time to process,” Zhao said. “The U-Store is relatively close.”
“I think it makes perfect sense considering how much people want to represent their school and also the pricing of the products,” Zhao said. “So when you have, let’s be honest, highly priced products and a lot of demand for them, it makes sense that a majority is going to be Insignia.”
“Our heavy-up sales are definitely going to be the alumni base because they are buying goods at a higher price, and those are the apparel and accessories items,” Archer said.
With regards to the total quantity of the top ten best-selling items by department, grocery led with 9,037 items, followed by gifts with 5586 items, and accessories with 4,091 items. This was a bit different than the total retail of the Top 10 best-selling items by department, as gifts led with $56,327.71, followed by accessories with $44,516.21 and general merchandise with $38.539.03.
The time of the year has an impact on which items sell more, as reflected by items in the General Merchandise department that topped the list for the past quarter—the top three items from a retail perspective were the Door Mirror, Pillow 100% Poly Fiber Fill, and the Princeton Planner 2024–25 with sales of $8,069.60, $4,920.01, and $3,927.61, respectively.
“The General Merchandise section in this particular quarter, because this has move-in data and [students] are just coming to school and getting settled, the closet items will always be best sellers,” Archer said.
A large part of the U-Store’s operations centers around working with the University on trademark licensing, as they need approval for using the intellectual property.
“[The trademark licensing team at the University is] responsible for approving or not approving everything,” Archer said. “So while we are certainly partnering with trademark licensing to bring them our thoughts, ideas, and desires to do whatever, there is a group of professionals who are ultimately responsible for maintaining the integrity of the marks and intellectual property.”
Princeton’s school spirit is ultimately what drives the U-Store’s business model, as insignia remains the core part of the U-Store’s business, accounting for 69.3 percent of the total sales this quarter, while the campus division accounted for the other 30.7 percent.
“There’s an emotion uniquely Princeton, and we are very fortunate. I mean, we wouldn’t have the business we have, and we would not be able to expand it if we didn’t have that spirit. And that is what the university’s gift to us is,” Archer said.
Andy Lau is a contributing Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Hellen Luo is a contributing Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The U-Store is, on average, the cheapest option for a broad range of campus essentials. Considering its proximity to most residential colleges, as well as the new policy which allows undergraduates on the unlimited dining plan to spend their $150 per semester of dining points or Paw Points at the U-Store or C-Store, the U-Store is especially convenient for students.
The ‘Prince’ analyzed prices of 27 of the U-Store’s more than 5,000 items and compared those prices to the prices of the same items from five convenience stores around or close to campus. The items were organized into six categories: beauty, beverage, grocery, health, household, and snack. The ‘Prince’ manually collected price data from the U-Store, C-Store, CVS, Wawa, and Princeton Convenience as well as Amazon, as an e-commerce alternative.
U-Store membership prices were also included as a potentially cost-saving option. According to U-Store president Jim Sykes, “probably 80 to 90 percent of students become members.”
Prices of items were standardized by quantity across all stores. For example, a single deodorant stick’s price from Wawa for $3.99 is doubled to compare with a two-pack of U-Store deodorant for $9.99.

The U-Store has lower prices than its competition in most categories. As a a non-profit organization, “the only reason [the U-Store] exist[s] is to serve this community,” Sykes said.
He also noted that the U-Store has benefited from Pay with Points, an Undergraduate Student Government initiative implemented in the fall of 2022. “The sales have been dramatically better since they implemented that [dining points],” Sykes said.
Wawa does not sell household goods and sells the most expensive snacks and health products. Amazon prices may be less expensive if students buy items in bulk, but were only analyzed in U-Store item sizes.
“A couple of times a year we try to do a price comparison with Wawa and generally CVS,” Sykes said. “We don’t really compare against Princeton Convenience Store. In the case of both CVS and Wawa, they are paying less than us from the vendors because they have much larger buying capability.”
Sykes said the U-Store is a hybrid between a convenience and grocery store in terms of pricing and selection.
There are other convenience stores in town. Princeton Convenience opened in September 2020 and focuses mainly on household goods, and its products are often more expensive.
Amazon and the U-Store sell all the most common items analyzed while the C-Store sells the fewest. When one store’s pricing is far higher than the others, it is often Wawa or Princeton Convenience. Often the U-Store membership or Amazon is the least expensive.
Wawa was not the least expensive option for any item analyzed.
When analyzing the prices of individual items, Amazon, followed by the U-Store, is often the low-priced store, even though Amazon is the most expensive option 26% of the time. This means that only 18% of Amazon items analyzed are not either the highest or lowest price for an item analyzed.
Four of the stores analyzed offer memberships and additional savings, often at a cost.
For higher-weight items, the U-Store is often the best option. With a Prime membership, Amazon ships for free, so their prices are higher for heavier items to compensate for lost shipping revenue.
CVS ships items for $5.49 and is free for orders above $40.49. All items analyzed for CVS are available at the Nassau Street location and online and can be ordered for pickup.
The U-Store, Amazon, and Wawa sell produce, which was not considered in this analysis. Amazon produce is sold through Whole Foods Fresh and is delivered within two hours, but Frist Campus Center mailing still has to process the shipment before it is retrievable. All customers, including ones with a Prime subscription, are charged $9.95 in shipping on orders under $50, $6.95 on orders  $50 – $100 , and $3.95 on orders from $100 – $150. Orders above $150 qualify for free shipping.
While the U-Store with membership is the most cost-effective in all categories but one, it is not always the most convenient. Rocky, Mathey, and colleges are closest to the U-Store, Whitman is equidistant to the U-Store, C-Store, and Wawa, and Forbes, NCW, and Yeh are all closest to Wawa.
The two convenience stores located on Nassau Street are, on average, the furthest from all residential colleges and are open for the fewest hours per day after the C-Store.
The U-Store is open every day from 8 a.m. to 2 a.m., the C-Store is open every day from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., Wawa is open 24 hours a day, every day, Princeton Convenience is open 7 a.m. to 12 a.m. weekdays and 8:30 a.m. to 12 a.m. on weekends, and CVS is open 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. every day.
Andrew Bosworth is a data contributor.
Please direct any correction requests to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.In early November, the self-checkout system at the U-Store’s University Place location was removed without explanation.
Joette Leamon, the U-Store’s Director of Stores, declined to comment about the reasoning behind the self-checkout system’s removal. Students, who rely on the option to quickly move through the store, have mixed feelings about the removal of self-checkout.
Darden Shuman ’27 and Anastasiya Chernitska ’28 both told The Daily Princetonian that they did not feel the removal of the self-checkout system was a major issue and expressed that they found the system faulty.
Shuman added that in her experience, the U-Store self-checkout system “usually did not work and had a lot of glitches.”
Six of eight students interviewed by the ‘Prince’ reported that they had experienced glitches in the system.
Ella Sloan ’27 said, “You would scan your stuff, and it would come up as an error, or you would scan your [student ID], and it wouldn’t work, so I just ended up going to the cashier.”
John Van Horn ’25 said that the system was “a bit buggy.”
Douglas Herring, a local criminal defense attorney, representing four University students charged with theft offenses at the U-Store claims that his clients’ charges were a result of alleged glitches in the self-checkout kiosks and cursory scanning of items, not an intent to steal.
Herring declined to provide corroborating documents or disclose the identity of his clients to the ‘Prince.’ Herring is soliciting clients accused of shoplifting from the U-Store. His website lays out his office’s plan for defending students and seeks students who might want his services.
The Princeton Municipal Prosecutor, Chris Koutsouris, did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Leamon wrote in an email to ‘Prince’ that when it comes to cases regarding U-Store theft, “the Princeton University Store has complete faith in the judicial system and each party’s right to due process.”
U-Store lawyer Shawn Neufeld declined to comment about the legal proceedings of theft cases.
Still, students found the self-checkout option useful, especially during busy hours.
Brian Zhou ’27 told the ‘Prince’ that he was “a little disappointed that [the self-checkout] is gone.”
“It was really helpful, and I feel like it was pretty easy to use after the first time,” Zhou said.
Three students told the ‘Prince’ that they have experienced longer lines at the U-Store since the removal of the self-checkout.
“I was always a little frustrated with the software,” Van Horn said. “But I don’t think they should have removed it as an option. Sometimes when there’s long lines, it was very useful.”
Nico David-Fox is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’ He is from Washington, D.C.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The precious minutes before classes wrap for the day are often signaled by the crinkling of paper and the echo of rushed zippers. Cramming loose pencils and expensive laptops into their bags of choice, students brush by each other as they near the classroom exit.
Some students carry bags that are clear forms of aesthetic expression, while others seem to use a bag only because they had to. Wrapping up the last of my classes for the day, I found myself leisurely strolling through the main campus, taking in the clusters of students hauling everything from full backpacks to empty totes. In these moments of observation, here’s what I found.
As groups of students open the heavy wooden doors at McCosh 50, you can’t help but notice a wave of sleek, minimal black bags. Spanning brands from The North Face to Herschel Supply & Co., these bags rarely deviate from the norm with a sleek, minimal aesthetic, except for the occasional decorated pin or sentimental patch.
Many of these bags have been accompanying their student counterparts since their high school years. In an interview with The Daily Princetonian, Nicole Ramirez ’27 said of her bag, “I’ve had her since my sophomore year of high school, and I just have to sew her up every once in a while.”
Aside from the usual worn-down backpack, another familiar backpack among the student body continues the sporty, sleek trend — the Princeton athlete backpack, adorned with tags and symbols of the owner’s sport.
But even athletes are updating their bags — although within the brands under which they are contracted.
“We get one every year. So I’ve just kind of cycled through four backpacks during my time here,” said Mason Armstead ’25, a defensive back on the football team. While athletes aren’t required to wear their issued bags, he mentioned some restrictions on the type of bag he is allowed to carry: “No Under Armour or some other sports teams [brands],” he said, since the Princeton football team contracts with Nike.
Beyond their oftentimes simple exteriors, backpacks are a popular choice of bag because of their useful interiors. With a million random pockets, the most organized (or disorganized) student can neatly manage their items, or at least attempt to. The appeal of these bags is simple, and their function is guaranteed for users: Even the clumsiest student knows that their expensive technology won’t be cracked anytime soon.
Pushing past the sea of black bags and moving towards East Pyne, the bag colors shifted from black to beige and from two shoulder straps to one. Rather than minimalist exteriors and complex interiors, the world of tote bags, designed with the opposite concept, opened in front of me.
Like a treasure hunt without the map, tote users must forage in their bag for their singular pen, which, of course, is right next to the book they don’t read.
Dylan Conard ’27 uses a canvas tote bag that has a light blue painted background stamped with picturesque images of France. Conard found the tote during his trip to Paris, where he was visiting a family member. This was typical with tote users I spoke to: Designs were often tied to the stories of where students found them.
In fact, from the Princeton-branded totes found in the U-Store to totes found abroad in foreign places like Madrid and Greece, it seems that no two totes are the same. Unlike other bags, however, I found that it was rare to see individual expression in the form of attached charms or pins on tote bags. It seems that tote bag users base their individuality on the original design of their tote bag or, simply, whatever was conveniently on the tote, regardless of design.
“I had a backpack, and I switched to a bag just because it’s bigger and more convenient for my computer,” Maria Olivarez ’28 said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ Olivarez’s current tote is decorated with popular Princeton imagery and was sourced from the U-Store. Doodles of iconic buildings such as the Princeton Chapel are paired with drawings of tigers, making Olivarez’s tote both functional and fashionable.
However, there is one standout tote bag that has recently made waves on campus: the Longchamp Le Pliage Original L Tote bag, specifically in the color Navy. Gaining popularity on social platforms such as TikTok and Instagram, this tote quickly replaced the former slouchy leather tote bag aesthetic that was present last semester.
Some Longchamp owners, like Anamaria Artola ’27, made the switch from using a backpack to a tote. Artola told the Prince, “I like this bag because I only carry my computer and my iPad. Since everything’s on a laptop and it’s pretty light, you can keep it in the tote.”
Combining the possible sore shoulders of the tote bag and the maximum square footage in a backpack, one group of bags balances the expressive traits of tote bags with the organized aesthetic of backpacks: the messenger bag. Ranging in construction from deep red and black leather to lighter canvas fabrics, messenger bags on campus are often decorated with unique and mismatched charms and trinkets.
“I got a carabiner from my host grandmother in Japan, and I also have a little mahjong towel that I got from a gotcha-pong machine,” said Matthew Barrett ’25. Barrett’s bag was gifted from a family member, a trend I saw in other messenger bags around campus. The older aesthetic still serves its purpose for a new generation.
While our bags may serve as our mostly-unacknowledged companions through the experience of Princeton, our choice in how we carry our tools of success might make you give a second thought about bags the next time you rush off to your next class.
Amanda Hugas is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for The Prospect. She can be reached by her email at ah0942@princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Eating clubs cost between $9,500–$12,500. The unlimited dining plan costs $8,340 and the Block 105 plan costs $3,234 for 8-10 meals a week. Co-ops, an alternative meal plan, serve only dinner and brunch, and members have to partake in cooking and cleaning shifts. The cost lies between $1,000–$1,300 annually.
These are the primary choices upperclass students, who are no longer required to be on the unlimited meal plan, have to choose from, unless they go independent. According to the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students (ODUS), independent students are defined as “students who agree not to join an eating club or to hold a university dining plan.”
According to the 2023 Dining Pilot Report, 14.6 percent of the 2023 and 2024 graduating class were independent and four percent were members of a Co-op on campus. For many, being independent and cooking for themselves is a financially-motivated choice.
Access and options to food and social spaces for upperclassmen was a topic of interest with the 2023 dining pilot. The dining pilot was an initiative by the University to build more community in eating. The program gave around ten percent of upperclassmen five swipes per week which they could use to eat at eating clubs, co-ops, dining halls, retail dining locations, and late meal. A group of student leaders who signed an alternative plan on Oct. 4, suggested that the pilot should allow the “Two Extra Meals” program to include late meal and meal exchange, extend the dining point system to upperclassmen, open eating clubs to upperclassmen at certain points in the semester and create more social spaces on campus.
For independent upperclassmen, grocery shopping while living on campus is not as straightforward as it may seem. Only a few stores are convenient and within walking distance of campus, with others more accessible via public transportation. Some stores, such as Costco, are only easily reached by car.
Andrew Jung ’25, a senior independent living in Spelman Hall — which is made up of apartments with full kitchens — goes to Costco occasionally using Enterprise CarShare, an hourly car rental service. Students, faculty, and staff receive a $25 credit when they join the program. This credit brings the total annual membership cost to $25 plus hourly rates for rentals of the 17-car fleet across eight campus locations.
“I used to use Zipcar, but stopped because it was unreliable and sometimes the car wouldn’t even show up,” Jung said.
Different grocery stores have vastly different offerings. More generic grocery stores, like Wegmans, Costco, and specialty stores like Trader Joe’s are often further from campus. Maruichi, a Japanese grocery store just on Nassau Street attracts locals and students for supplies and quick bites.
Across the five grocery stores, ShopRite and Wegmans provided, on average, the lowest price of goods. Whole Foods and the U-Store had the highest prices. Though the U-Store edges out convenience store competition in campus essentials, grocery shopping at the U-Store is, on average, more expensive than grocery shopping at large chain supermarkets. Price is a big consideration for independent students.
“Being independent is a lot cheaper than being in an eating club or on the dining plan, [but] it isn’t cheap either,” Jung said. “[I am] a lot more wary of spending money.”
For Jung, meat is especially difficult to purchase near campus.
With the start of the new school year, TigerTransit has changed routes, providing more service over the weekends. Sam Dorsey ’26 is a member of 2D Co-Op, which regularly sends people to get groceries on the Weekend Shopper bus. Dorsey dislikes the bus due to its long wait times and unpredictably.
Many Co-ops, including 2D Co-op, actually source their groceries from bulk wholesalers for a cheaper price. Brown Co-op president Jesus Herrera ’25 wrote to the ‘Prince’ that “our Co-Op orders about 99% of our food through US Foods, the same distributors as dining halls and eating clubs.”
“It’s very possible to be independent on campus,” Jung said. Jung felt confident about becoming independent because of Maruichi, a grocery store that’s walking distance from campus, opening up.
Upperclassmen can reduce or drop their meal plans until Sept. 20. Meal exchange begins on Sept 23.
Mary Ma is the Creative director and a staff Data writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.In a recent press release, the University announced its intention to rename 36 University Place in honor of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor ’76. Located at the northwest corner of Blair Courtyard, the building is best known among students as the site of the on-campus University Store.
“I’m curious to see why that building in particular was chosen,” Eleanor Hawkins ’28 said in an interview with the Daily Princetonian, reflecting current students’ association of 36 University Place with the U-Store, where students can purchase everyday items.
However, 36 University Place is also home to the Emma Bloomberg Center for Access and Opportunity, the Center for Career Development, and the Admission Information Center, where Orange Key Tours begin and information sessions are held. Due to this role, it is one of the University’s most public-facing buildings, and for many, marks the first space on Princeton’s campus that prospective students, their families, and other visitors see.
The March 11 press release notes the building’s diversity of roles as a “site of programs that support first-generation college, lower-income, transfer, and veteran students.” Sotomayor’s selection as an honoree was made with these programs, and their missions in mind, based on recommendations from the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) Committee on Naming.
University President Christopher L. Eisgruber ’83 called Justice Sotomayor a “trailblazing student” and an “extraordinary jurist” in a University statement announcing the renaming. She has served as an Associate Justice since 2009 — the first justice of Hispanic heritage and the third woman in Supreme Court history. She is also a former University trustee. In her time as an undergraduate at Princeton, Justice Sotomayor was a co-chair of the student group Acción Puertorriqueña y Amigos, a member of the student-faculty Committee on Discipline, and served on the governance board of the Third World Center.
According to their webpage, CPUC Committee on Naming provides “advice to the Board of Trustees with regard to the naming of programs, positions and spaces at Princeton.” Recent work from the committee includes the 2022 rededication of Marx Hall to honor Laura Wooten, who served in Campus Dining for more than 27 years and was recognized as the longest-serving poll worker in the US. The committee also recently studied the removal or relocation of the statue of John Witherspoon, although the Board of Trustees declined to alter the statue on the basis of Witherspoon’s views on slavery or ownership of enslaved people.
The building is currently undergoing minor changes. University Spokesperson Jennifer Morrill said that new signage and a dedicatory plaque will be added to the building.
Additional changes include “improvements to the bluestone entry plaza and replacement of the canopy fascia,” Morrill wrote in a statement to the ‘Prince.’ This work will be completed over the next few weeks. Currently, the campus-facing entrance to the University Store is closed, and the doors opening to University Place and the Admission Information Center are the only points of entry, meaning students must often walk around the building to purchase food, toiletries, and other products.
Diya Kraybill ’25, Editor-in-Chief of the Princeton Legal Journal, wrote to the ‘Prince’ about her excitement for the renaming of 36 University Place. “Justice Sotomayor is an incredible example to all Princeton students, but particularly students interested in pursuing a legal career,” she wrote.
For other students, however, the specific choice of building was surprising.
“I think that she could probably get a better building,” Ella Anderton ’28 told the ‘Prince.’ “Of all the buildings, it is kind of strange they picked the U-Store.”
Beatrice Cassidy ’28 also acknowledged Sotomayor’s influence on American politics and felt that it was time for more buildings to be named after her. She described the selection of 36 University Place as “a bit random.”
Regardless, many students see Sotomayor’s name as a powerful reminder of Sotomayor’s successful career after Princeton.
“I believe the naming of Sonia Sotomayor Hall will serve as a powerful reminder to students of Justice Sotomayor’s career as a truth-seeker and advocate for justice, and the role that Princeton played in shaping her path to the highest court in the land,” Kraybill said.
Tess Weinreich is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince’ from Washington, D.C. She typically covers University operations. She was formerly a Managing Editor for the ‘Prince’.
Devon Rudolph is an associate News editor and staff Sports writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please direct any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As spring approaches, the student body flocks outside, trading bitter nights in Chancellor Green for fresh air and warmth during end-of-semester study sessions. To provide an escape from the stuffy and solemn reading rooms of Firestone Library, here is a list of the best outdoor study spots on campus.
Cannon Green is by far the most congested outdoor lawn on campus on a sunny day. Set behind the picturesque Nassau Hall and decorated by the “Big Cannon,” Cannon Green puts the historical roots of the University on full display. The green offers students an expansive field with lawn chairs distributed throughout, where you can grab a seat before finishing a reading or double-checking a calculation.
One thing to keep in mind, though, is that as soon as the temperature rises, Cannon Green is guaranteed to be flooded with students gathering for picnics, playing spikeball, and completing coursework. While it offers an aesthetic and spacious study location, beware that your lock-in sessions may be disrupted by student revelers, tourists, and guided tour groups.

Not too far from the occasionally overcrowded Cannon Green, the lawns of Alexander Beach offer an alternative location. Situated between Richardson Auditorium and Blair Arch, Alexander Beach features close proximity to both Rockefeller and Mathey Colleges as well as the U-Store to satisfy all your snack breaks.
Alexander Beach is adjacent to Morrison Hall, which hosts an outdoor patio furnished with picnic tables overlooking the field. This spot is perfect for those who like the idea of studying outside but still need a physical desk space. I have witnessed peers sitting at these tables, laptops open, typing away. In this spot, you may still have trouble focusing, this time from a host of photoshoots.
Beware, though, that as soon as the weather heats up, large tents spring up for Princeton Preview, the series of admitted student days in April. This may put a damper on your dreams of sun-soaked afternoons studying.
Firestone Plaza is often a campus favorite for study breaks from working in the library. I’ve watched — and participated in — many snack breaks, phone calls, or quick loops through the plaza during my long nights at Firestone. But as the weather gets warmer, many students opt for the outdoor plaza over the cozy nooks of the Tiger Tea Room and the serene reading rooms.
Firestone Plaza not only allows for a study spot with proximity to any scholarly resources necessary within the library, but also provides an outdoor environment conducive to productivity. With several tables, chairs, and ledges dispersed throughout the area, it is an ideal study spot for those compiling independent research. Yet beware of the Orange Key tours that frequently stop on the steps of the sculpture “Song of the Values.”
While your memories of Frist Lawn may consist of the crowded concerts during Lawnparties, both the North and South Lawns are excellent study spaces with close proximity to countless academic buildings on campus. Decorated with lawn chairs, both fields strike a balance between lounging and locking-in.
The South Lawn features picnic tables with an extensive patio for students. This space is no longer just for eating your late meal, but also an option for snacking and studying.
My favorite outdoor study spot on campus is the Campus Club Coffee Club backyard, where you can be sure to see me on a warm day. The backyard offers a more hidden study space, with a few tables and chairs perfect for finishing an essay or writing an article. It’s also perfect for students wanting to grab a tasty pastry or invigorating beverage before getting in an aesthetically pleasing study session.
The backyard is an especially pleasant environment when a student artist is performing inside. With the doors ajar, the music provides a serene backdrop. No need for your noise-cancelling headphones and meticulously curated Spotify playlists when there are talented student performers inside. But watch out for basketballs from the Tower backyard.
For those of us residing on lower campus, Poe Field is an opportune option for reading, recreation, or relaxing. While the field does lack furniture, I have witnessed many students sprawled on blankets with laptops out on a warm day.
The spot’s proximity to New College West, Yeh, and Bloomberg Hall makes Poe Field an ideal study location for southern campus students — or those who love Choi Dining Hall.
A final study spot that is off-the-beaten-path for some is Forbes College’s Backyard. While my bias as a Forbesian may influence my preference, the yard provides a beautiful environment overlooking the Springdale Golf Club and Graduate College.
The backyard has several red lawn chairs and picnic tables for a cozy study environment. On a warm day, you can witness countless team dinners, football rounds, and students studying under the sunlight. Additionally, the close-knit community of Forbes ensures this spot is a welcoming and friendly environment for all.
Marley Hartnett-Cody is a member of the Class of 2028, a contributing writer for The Prospect, and a print designer at the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at mh8519@princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections@dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.“If you live near a grocery store but you can’t afford to shop there, then it doesn’t matter that you're not in a food desert. You’re still hungry,” wrote author and activist Mikki Kendall in her book “Hood Feminism.”
Dr. Philip Geheber from the Princeton Writing Program, an expert on the role of food in communities, cited the passage in reference to Princeton’s Nassau Street dining scene and students who elect to be independent. His writing seminar, WRI 121: The Future of Food, examines the food system infrastructure in Princeton and beyond.
Last year, about 12 percent of upperclassmen pledged to be independent  during room draw. Amidst ongoing conversations around potential changes to upperclassmen dining, independent students are already navigating often-complex financial factors related to food.
Although eating club dining plans are the most popular among upperclass undergraduates, many juniors and seniors still opt to pledge independent. University spokesperson Michael Hotchkiss reported in an email to The Daily Princetonian that 332 upperclass students chose to be independent during last year’s room draw, with that number rising following room draw.
The plan includes two dining hall swipes per week, with the rest of the week’s meals up to the students’ discretion — primarily cooking, ordering food, or eating out.
The University launched the Dining Pilot, in which a select group of students can have five meals a week at any eating club or co-op regardless of membership, with independent students in mind. With the Dining Pilot requiring participants to be hosted by a member of the clubs they’re eating at, similarly to the existing meal exchange program, the biggest change is for independent students who previously relied on guest swipes, which may be very limited, to eat with friends at eating clubs.
Many independent students tend to buy products in bulk at nearby stores such as Trader Joe’s, Costco, and Target with fellow independent students. The majority of the students the ‘Prince’ spoke to mentioned that they use TigerTransit’s Weekend Shopper bus most frequently for travel to these stores, aside from rideshare apps like Uber and Lyft.
Students have transportation options such as the aforementioned Weekend Shopper, NJTransit’s 605 bus route, and the Municipality of Princeton’s free bus service. These services provide students with access to stores such as Whole Foods, Trader Joe’s, Wegmans, Target, and more. Princeton University also offers low-cost hourly car rentals through a partnership with Enterprise Carshare.
Even with these transportation options, however, grocery shopping can be difficult. Geheber stated that people who are not used to using buses to go grocery shopping can find it challenging, noting that riding the bus can limit how much someone buys because they then have to carry the groceries back on the bus and to campus.
Additionally, some students find that there is a lack of affordable grocery options within walking distance of campus. Jasmyn Dobson ’24, an independent student, spoke to the ‘Prince’ regarding the issues with transportation, noting, “For myself I’ve found some things really hard, particularly when the buses aren’t operating regularly and I can’t get necessary food items.”
Dobson is a News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Students may instead rely on communities of independent students. Joy Cho ’24 noted, “A lot of people I know that are independent live in the same building as me, so we all look out for each other.”
The options for obtaining groceries without leaving campus seem to be limited. “The U-Store is okay for every once in a while, but like Nassau, it’s unsustainable in the long term if you’re on a strict budget,” Dobson said.
The ‘Prince’ recently investigated how U-Store prices compare to competitors, finding that it is cheaper for those who purchase a membership, than farther grocery stores like Trader Joe’s and Wegmans, which may have more variety than the U-Store.
Geheber commented, “The stores in town trend toward boutique specialty shops, with some attention to students, but students aren’t their primary customer base. Stores like Olsson’s Fine Foods on Palmer Square are much more like their neighbors on the square Hermès than they are like Wegmans.”
Even with the challenges of being independent, students cite financial reasons for the plan’s appeal. Cho remarked that being independent is “definitely more affordable than any other dining plan,” and more cost-effective compared to the dining hall or eating club plans.
For some students, another advantage of being independent is its flexibility. When on the dining hall plan as an underclassman, some found that they had difficulty finding time in their own schedule to meet the meal hours for dining halls.
One independent student, Gabriel Robare ’24, said, “I’ve often made a 2 a.m. sandwich after coming home from ‘the Street,’ or made dinner at 4:30 p.m. because I had an event to get to, or made breakfast at 11 because I was working late the night before. That’s a very helpful part of independent life.”
Robare is the Strategic Initiative Director for Archives at the ‘Prince.’
Dobson was unsure about whether the stipend provided by the University met students’ full financial need.
“I don’t think it really takes into account the real cost of living in Mercer County in general,” Dobson said.
In response to these claims, Hotchkiss stated that students’ financial aid budgets cover food costs. For all upperclass students, the standard cost is $10,034, and high-need independent students are provided refunds every semester for food.
Geheber remarked, “I've not yet determined what an ideal solution might be in Princeton, but I can say that ideally we'd create a food system that isn't entirely left to the whims of market competition for supply and that doesn’t assume universal car ownership.”
Jeannie Kim is a first-year from Chicago, Illinois and a Feature and News staff writer for the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at jk5876@princeton.edu.
Rebecca Cho is a first-year from Long Island, New York and a News staff writer for the ‘Prince.’ She can be reached at rc5928@princeton.edu.
Correction: A previous version of this article misidentified pledging independent as an independent meal plan. Independent students elect not to join an eating club and not to purchase a meal plan.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.I normally board the Princeton Weekend Shopper bus at least twice a month to go to Trader Joe’s. Some days, the Shopper is quiet and nearly empty. On other days, the Shopper bustles with the conversations of friends and families journeying south along Route 1. This is how 54 minutes passed on a comfortably silent Princeton Weekend Shopper on Sunday, Nov. 10.
I grabbed the 1:08 p.m. bus, which surprisingly arrived a full two minutes early. I grabbed my usual seat: in the back, on the driver’s side. A young woman with headphones boarded a minute after me and sat opposite. The bus left precisely at 1:08 p.m.
A man and a woman whispered to each other in the front of the bus, while another man had AirPods in his ears. There was another young man who wore a running vest and also donned AirPods. The methodic click of the turning signal pierced the air as the bus left the parking lot and started its route.
People on the Shopper: 6
Lawrence was the first of three stops to graduate apartments. Usually, a handful of people board the bus at this sprawling complex of red brick and gray concrete buildings. This Sunday, though, no one got on the bus. The man in the running vest deboarded, but no one came to replace him. The pair at the front of the bus looked up for a moment before they resumed their quiet chatter.
People on the Shopper: 5
The second graduate student complex was smaller, but the wood-paneled, cabin-aesthetic buildings were more visually appealing. The design of the apartments proved to be the only source of entertainment, as very few people boarded the bus. Only one person got on the bus, while the AirPods-wearer got off.
The next location was the new graduate student apartment complex, the Meadows Apartments — a stop that was not on the route last year. The change to the route was a welcome one, as now the bus travels over the scenic Lake Carnegie to reach the apartments. The weekend before, I took the Shopper with some friends on Saturday, and the lake area was bursting with people as families, students, and community members gathered to watch a regatta. This past Sunday, the lake stretched beneath a gray sky, providing a calming sight. When the bus stopped, a man with an orange bag ran to catch it before departure.
The pair at the front of the bus who were quietly talking exited. One person boarded. With the departure of the couple, the bus became utterly, perfectly silent as passengers settled back into their own worlds.
Three people got off the bus. Two of them shouted thanks to the driver as they departed. In their wake, six people boarded the bus, including an older woman with a stuffed shopping bag. All of the people who boarded seemed to be graduate students or older community members.
As the bus pulled away from the shopping complex, a man sitting next to me, potentially in his early 30s, pulled out his phone and began a call. Bits and pieces of his phone call were discernible despite the drone of the bus’s engine.
“You can also see what deals you get on Black Friday,” he said to the person on the other end.
The woman with the shopping bag was the only person on the bus who was not using her phone.
People on the Shopper: 8
Trader Joe’s was the last shopping stop on the trip. No one got off, and no one boarded.
“A setting that charges your phone to 85 percent and then stops,” said the man on the phone.
A young man with a full backpack thanked the driver and got off.
People on the Shopper: 7
A woman, loaded down with two full reusable shopping bags and a backpack, got off. The man beside me was still on the phone.
“I didn’t see the invitation until three months later,” he said.
The man on the phone stood up and said parting words to the person on the other end as he departed the bus. An older woman with a shopping bag boarded the bus. When she entered, we locked eyes, and I smiled briefly at her. After she smiled back at me, I broke eye contact. My eyes drifted back over to her a second later, and I noticed she was still smiling at me.
During the entire journey, she maintained a consistent, wide smile. At one point, she put her face in between the floor-to-ceiling metal bars next to her seat and made a funny face at me.
I did not pay attention to how many people left or boarded the bus, as I was too focused on the smiling woman. To my shock, the woman also moved to get off the bus despite having a shopping bag. My feet led me into Wawa and away from the woman. I spied her through the window of the convenience store, waiting at the bus stop. After less than a minute of standing in the store, I made my way back to my dorm.
Overall, my Weekend Shopper trip was quiet, peaceful, and dependable. Grand excitement is not necessary for a shopping trip along New Jersey’s Route 1. While not many people boarded the orange transport vehicle, it is still well-loved and well-used by undergraduate students, graduate students, and members of the Princeton community.
Meredith Sneed is a contributing writer for The Prospect from Savannah, Ga. She can be reached at ms1290[at]princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The “drunk meal” food truck outside Frist Campus Center, which provided students with another late-night meal option, was quietly discontinued this semester following “slow sales,” according to an emailed statement to The Daily Princetonian from University spokesperson Jennifer Morrill.
The truck, which opened last September, operated on the north side of the McCosh Health Center from 11 p.m. to 3 a.m. on Thursdays, Fridays, and Saturdays. According to the University, the truck had its hours scaled back to Friday and Saturday last year due to a lack of popularity, which persisted. As a result, the Food Truck has not reopened this year.
With the truck closing, there are no longer any University-affiliated food vendors that operate after 2 a.m. Frist Late Night, or “drunk meal,” operates on Saturdays from 11 p.m. to 2 a.m. in the Frist Food Gallery. Studio ’34, located in 1976 Hall in Butler College, is open Wednesday through Sunday from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m, and the Princeton University Store at 36 University Place also closes at 2 a.m.
Wawa, located near Princeton Station, is open 24 hours. One Wawa employee told the ‘Prince’ that the store has been busy recently, and added that the weekend of Nov. 1 was “mobbed.” The store manager confirmed that Wawa has been extremely crowded on weekends, but was unsure whether this was outside the norm of previous year.
Some students, however, did not seem to mourn the loss of the truck.
Athan Zhang ’26 wrote to the ‘Prince,’ “There is no real value of having the food served in a truck. If anything, it’s a detriment because people have to be outside.”
“I do remember often passing by ‘drunk meal’ after studying at Frist … and just seeing the prices and thinking they were ridiculous,” he added. “As a former Forbesian, it made no sense for me to buy a meal there when I could get something just as good for literally half the price.”
Frankie Duryea ’26 told the ‘Prince’ in an interview, “I think it being in Frist makes more sense than it being the outside food trucks. It’s safer for drunk kids that don’t need to be cold and stumbling around, they can sit down and they can get water inside.”
In an email to the ‘Prince,’ Dhruv Raghuraman ’27 wrote, “I am mostly ambivalent because I hardly went.”
However, he added that he “knew a lot of people who appreciated having somewhere between the Street where they could rest and eat after a long night out.”
Enzo Kho ’26, Undergraduate Student Government Social Chair, told the ‘Prince’ in an interview that going to drunk meal was more convenient for him, compared to Wawa and Studio 34.
“I lived in Whitman … so drunk meal was usually the easiest one,” he said. However, the long lines often deterred him.
He noted that drunk meal accepts Dining Points, as did the food truck. Wawa does not.
Morrill wrote to the ‘Prince’ that, “Dining Services welcomes any feedback from students to help guide next steps, particularly regarding menu items they’d like to see return to Frist.”
Emily Leon is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Olivia Sanchez is an associate News editor for the ‘Prince.’ She is from New Jersey and often covers the graduate school and academic departments.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.
Within a matter of days, two fires occurred on or near campus, both requiring the attention of firefighters.
The most recent incident unfolded in the late afternoon on Sunday, Sept. 24 after an electric scooter was left in the study room of a dorm in Whitman College. According to students who spoke with The Daily Princetonian, the incident was caused by a wheel on a scooter which wouldn’t stop spinning, creating soot and causing the tire to fall apart.
Fadima Tall ’27, whose neighbor owned the scooter in question, told the ‘Prince’ that the spinning wheel “burned a hole in the ground,” setting off the fire alarm in the building and causing multiple fire trucks to arrive on the scene.
Some of the damage was visible in pictures shared by Barstool Princeton on Instagram, which showed the wheel created substantial soot and other debris through its disintegration.
“If you analyze the Barstool photos, it doesn’t look like a hole was created, just soot,” Louisa Gheorghita ’26, who was at Whitman when the incident happened, told the ‘Prince.’
Gheorghita is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
According to Tall, her scooter made contact with the malfunctioning scooter, leaving both smoking. Tall added that she and the others in Baker Hall were then questioned by firefighters and Public Safety.
This incident comes weeks after the University implemented new restrictions on scooters on campus, prohibiting the use of personal electric vehicles (PEVs) during “peak hours.”
University staff and students acted swiftly to the incident, alerting local authorities. The alarms went off in Baker Hall/1981 Hall at 5:35 p.m., and fire trucks arrived shortly after.
This came days after an oven caught fire on Wednesday, Sept. 20 at the nearby Wawa on Alexander Street. According to William Gil ’27, the fire alarm went off at 11:20 p.m., and firefighters arrived 20 minutes later.
“Everyone was shocked but was also laughing because it was an unexpected event,” Gil said.
Nobody was injured as a result of either fire.
Hiba Samdani is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.After late-night studying during the week, I proudly become a homebody on weekends. While I occasionally hit Prospect Street, on most Fridays and Saturdays, I typically relax by watching whatever show is my current obsession — right now, it’s the new Shogūn series. I watch a few episodes in my usually quiet dorm and fall asleep before midnight. However, some nights, I want to venture outside my comfort zone. When I want to try something a little more adventurous and not too tiring, I’ll explore the events, places, and other offerings found on campus and around town. If you’re looking for a weekend night alternative, here are some ideas.
As a student who enjoys the arts, I always enjoy exploring my creative passions at Princeton. One outlet for expressing creativity is the NCW Ceramics Studio. Throughout the week and weekend, there are many opportunities to visit the studio. In addition to the Ceramics Studio, there are other artistic spaces offered to students, such as the Crochet Club, which sometimes meets on Friday nights. While I’m not a particularly talented ceramicist or crochet artist, these options are low-stakes creative environments on campus that give you the freedom to lose yourself in the creative process and find a new social community.
USG Movies is known for screening films at the Garden Theater each weekend. The selection typically consists of a recently released favorite or an anticipated upcoming release. While I love to watch movies in my room, there is also nothing quite like experiencing a film in a movie theater. The weekly showings are also a chance to explore something new. Whether you go with friends or attend solo, you might just leave with a stomach full of popcorn and a new favorite movie. The movie for the week can be found on the USG Movies Instagram account.
There is never a lack of dance shows, comedy shows, and art exhibitions to experience on the weekend. As someone who regularly attends dance shows, I’m always amazed by the consistent quality of the work. Each show is a complete production, with many having a video component shown in between acts and appearances from other performing groups around campus. As the semester ends, many groups will showcase their last performances of the year. Some groups that I have immensely enjoyed watching are Black Arts Company, Princeton University Ballet, and Quipfire. Find some groups that sound interesting to you, and make a plan to check at least one of them out.
Although I spend a fair amount of time on my phone before bed, on many Friday and Saturday nights, I reach for a book before I fall asleep. On Thursdays or Fridays, I often visit Labyrinth Books on Nassau Street to pick up new books for the weekend. However, I have severely underestimated how much storage space I would have in my small double for stacks of books. For students with space constrictions, I suggest the Princeton University Library’s Dixon eBooks catalog through the Libby app or online. You can borrow an ebook from the catalog’s wide variety of new releases by emerging authors to classic books with cult followings across every genre. If you have not browsed through the catalog already, I highly recommend seeing what it has to offer.
I have found that a less stressful alternative to studying in Firestone is studying in the three-story window haven that is Princeton Public Library. Although the Library closes at 6 pm on Fridays and Saturdays, there is usually an art workshop, film screening, or author’s talk offered in the Library just before closing. Notably, April 5-14 is the Princeton Environmental Film Festival, and the Princeton Public Library will host screenings of documentary features and documentary shorts this Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, with a few showings taking place at night. If you are interested, check out the upcoming Princeton Public Library events here with the screening times.
Weekend nights are the perfect time to try a new restaurant or return to a reliable favorite. The town of Princeton has many offerings to choose from. Sitting at a table and ordering a meal will truly make you feel like you have entered the real world again, successfully escaping the “Orange Bubble.” However, if you decide you really do want to have a night in, then order takeout and get cozy. I personally love to grab a burrito from Tacoria on Friday nights and eat while I read. Grabbing some scoops of ice cream from The Bent Spoon and going for a night stroll is the perfect way to embrace the upcoming hotter weeks. If you are still in the mood for some warm food, Lan Ramen has excellent ramen and a cozy atmosphere to help you unwind after a stressful week.
If you like collecting physical editions of your favorite songs or exploring new music, browse Princeton Record Exchange’s collection of new and used vinyls, CDs, and DVDs. In the last few years, I have started buying more vinyls, adding to a growing collection. However, I often do not buy vinyls strictly for listening to music. Instead, I like decorating my walls with the vinyl jackets of my favorite albums. Whether you want to buy for decoration or listening enjoyment, check out the store. Princeton Record Exchange, located on Tulane St, closes at 8 pm on Fridays and Saturdays.
There is nothing wrong with falling into the same comfortable rhythm every weekend and having a trustworthy Friday or Saturday night routine. I am most definitely a person loyal to my routines. Now that I know the easiest way to relax is to hit play on my show and have a quiet night, I might not want to change my routine. However, there is pure enjoyment in finding a new thing to love. We can find activities that bring comfort and enjoyment, which cause our shoulders to loosen and our lips to lift into a grin. If you feel even the slightest desire to try something new, trust that instinct and go explore. You’ll be glad you did.
Meredith Sneed is a freshman contributor for The Prospect from Savannah, GA. She can be reached at ms1290@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Whether you’re planning a birthday party, club dinner, reunion meet-up, graduation family meal, or any large group dinner, it can be overwhelming to find a spot in Princeton that accommodates 10+ people within a reasonable budget. To make your life a little easier, here are some options within walking distance of campus for the next time you’re planning a group meal.
While there are a lot of restaurants in Princeton, I only included locations that accept reservations. For each restaurant, I list the number of people it can accommodate, how to make a reservation, cuisine, starting entree price, if it’s bring your own bottle (BYOB), and when it is open.
$ → Entrees starting at $14–16
Thai Village
SCHouse
Chennai Chimney
La Mezzaluna
Lan Ramen
Yankee Doodle Tap Room
Winberie’s Restaurant & Bar
Ani Ramen House
$$ → Entrees starting at $22–26
Metro North
Local Greek
Kristine’s
Ficus
Witherspoon Grill
Mediterra
Mistral
Blue Point Grill
$$$ → Entrees starting at $28–30
Agricola Eatery
The Perch at the Peacock Inn
Roots Ocean Prime
$$$$ → Entrees starting at $40–75
The Dinky Bar & Kitchen
Elements
On-Campus Options
For more casual, picnic-like group meal options, you can sit at outdoor tables on campus at locations such as Frist Campus Center, Scheide Caldwell House, Whitman courtyard, Forbes backyard, New College West/Yeh, between Hamilton and Joline in Mathey, Palmer Square, Firestone Plaza, or Stokes Library. You can also book Dod Basement or 1903 Basement through the Dormitory Assistants. The Forbes, Whitman, and RoMa dining halls also have private dining rooms that can be booked. Some ideas for easy take-out food options are Jammin’ Crepes, Le Kiosk, Olsson’s, and Olives.
Megan Specht is a contributing writer for the Prospect section of the ‘Prince’.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The closest grocery stores in Princeton, such as Costco and Target, are a fair distance from campus. This might encourage students to spend on nearby restaurants. However, as of late, Maruichi Japanese Food & Deli has presented students who are sick of Frist sushi with a slice of authentic Japanese cuisine.
Located on Nassau Street, Maruichi is a market that offers various Japanese foods, ingredients, snacks, and more. I found the addition of Maruichi to Nassau Street’s array of restaurants to be absolutely life-changing. Whenever I engage in food-securing expeditions with my friends, we often find ourselves in situations where we can only purchase food from restaurants. As a result, during my time at Princeton, I have formulated some short-hand rules: the food on Nassau Street must cost at least $8 but is often between $10 and $20. At times, it feels like I am paying my life savings for a loaf of sliced bread. At Maruichi, you can find onigiri for $3, pastries for $3.75, and more. Near closing time, the onigiri and some meals, such as gyudon, are half-priced.
Given this and the fact that there are not many markets on Nassau Street, others at Princeton seem to have found Maruichi’s debut to be sensational. On the day of Maruichi’s grand opening on March 25, there was a line of excited customers at the front doors, who stood in the rain to experience Princeton’s latest attraction. I learned that many stayed on the line in hopes of obtaining free products from Maruichi. I made it my mission to learn more about the new Japanese market.
Walking into Maruichi, I could not help but notice how much I’ve missed the distinct supermarket aesthetic and experience, which is rare at Princeton. I felt like I was back home at my local Japanese market. When you enter through the doors and look to the right, you’ll find an impressive and diverse set of bread and pastries. Most of the pastries are baked at Maruichi itself, and they offer a selection of Tokyo Bread pastries in their aisles. Some of the types of bread they offer include maple bread, chocolate bread, coffee cornets, and buns with red bean paste inside. Nearby, there are a set of refrigerators containing matcha ice cream, Ramune, matcha lattes, and much more. To the left of the entrance, you can find delectable snacks such as daifuku and Pocky, which are sold at competitive prices ($2.00–$2.50) when compared to Princeton’s U-Store ($5).
I continued the exploration through the aisles of Maruichi with a comrade. We found stacks and stacks of dangerously good gummies, chocolate snacks, sweet bread, mochi, and ramen. Some of my personal favorites at the market include maple bread, Alfort chocolates, and rice crackers; my eyes also could not help but fall victim to the allure of matcha-flavored Kit Kats. To my initial surprise, Maruichi went beyond the realm of snacks: at the back of the market, there are aisles dedicated to various home products such as shampoo, plushies, bags of rice, and skincare products. There are even sections of the market devoted to raw seafood, sushi, and prepared meals such as beef with udon noodles.
Initially, the plan with my friend was to simply explore Maruichi. However, I fell victim to my materialistic desires and told my friend to fetch me a basket, so I easily spent about $50 on my first trip to Maruichi. After many weeks since its grand opening, I have made numerous trips to Maruichi, and I expect to make many more while I spend this summer at Princeton. My roommate has spent hundreds of dollars within the first two weeks of the market’s opening. My friend and I left the establishment wailing to each other, ‘No! My money!’ Indeed, our wallets are in grave danger: suffice it to say that Maruichi certainly lives up to the hype from our fellow students.
Gregory Serrano Arevalo, a sophomore from Salinas, California, is a contributing writer for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ Greg can be reached at gregory.serrano.arevalo@princeton.edu.
With spring here, Marley Hartnett-Cody, a contributing writer for The Prospect, explores the campus’s best outdoor study spots.
Associate Editor for The Prospect Gavin McLoughlin and Staff Writer for The Prospect Annika Plunkett take us inside the hidden basement bakery fueling Princeton’s dining halls with over 6,000 desserts a day.
Staff Writer for The Prospect Amanda Hugas analyzes campus fashion through the lens of backpacks, bags, and totes.On Aug. 18, Nassau Street lost one of its landmark restaurants: Proof Pizza, where students could use dining points to order a variety of specialty pies, including a truffle and garlic white pizza, an eggplant-burrata pizza, and a breakfast pizza. Other options for high-quality pizza exist in Princeton, such as Nomad — but this establishment is located far from campus at the Princeton Shopping Center. Now that Proof is gone, where can a student easily get unique, specialty pizza right on Nassau?
D’Angelo Italian Market
The first specialty pizza I tried was a dessert pizza from D’Angelo Italian Market, a lesser-known but nonetheless lovely market and deli on the corner of Spring Street and South Tulane Street, just a few doors down from the Princeton Record Exchange. Inside, D’Angelo is a quintessential New Jersey Italian restaurant — with made-to-order hot food, specialty snacks, and pre-prepared salads. Homemade cannolis and Italian rainbow cake sit just down the counter from a butcher offering fresh-cut smoked meats.
I was interested, however, in the pizza, and what better way to start my Princeton pizza journey than with a dessert pie — Chocolate Nutella. Proof also used to have a Nutella dessert pie, but theirs included ricotta and marshmallows, and cost three dollars less. At D’Angelo, for $14, you can get a six-slice pizza topped with Nutella, as well as your choice of strawberries and/or bananas — the same price and about the same size as the Nutella pie at Nomad. The main difference between the two lies in the crust. Nomad is well-known for their soft, fluffy, floury crust. The D’Angelo pizza has a much denser crust. The thick lathering of Nutella is topped with a sprinkle of powdered sugar and freshly sliced fruit. Additionally, D’Angelo is extremely generous with the fruit, covering every square inch of the pizza. For anyone with a small group looking for dessert on Nassau, I highly recommend this treat (even if Proof’s dessert pizza had more toppings for less money).
Jules Thin Crust
Jules Pizza, a small regional chain, offers a variety of specialty flatbread pizzas. Now that Proof is gone, they are the only off-campus pizza place that accepts dining points. I previously reviewed their Mediterranean pizza, which features a Greek salad on top of a slice of cheese flatbread pizza. Proof also had a salad pizza, but instead made it a white pizza, featuring far fewer vegetables and a balsamic drizzle on top.
Jules was tasty and certainly unique, especially the flatbread crust, but it didn’t have the texture of a traditional pizza that I craved, especially when compared to the crispy, crusty pizza that Proof used to offer.
If you’re in the mood for something boldly different, Jules is a great option, but if you’re specifically looking for a classic New York style pizza, I recommend turning your attention to one of the other places on this list.
Saturn Pizza
Located inside the Ivy Inn — closer to campus than Nomad and even Conte’s, another pizza place — Saturn Pizza offers classic bar and grill food like burgers, fries, nachos, and, of course, pizza. They pride themselves on “cracker crust” slices that are extra thin and well-done. Saturn Pizza also has a gluten-free alternative available. Each specialty pie is named after a different planet, so I went with their Pluto Pie, which has chicken, BBQ sauce, ranch dressing, and colby jack cheese. This option costs $16 for a small serving. Proof didn’t have a comparable option; all of their non-white pizzas used regular tomato sauce over something like BBQ.
Saturn got the closest to a classic slice of New Jersey pizza with a thin, chewy crust. I enjoyed the pizza, but I wasn’t blown away by it. After having so many over-the-top pizzas, I wanted Saturn to commit a little more to their toppings and flavors, which I felt were slightly lacking in depth. Saturn is great for a classic slice, but not as special as some of the other options in town.
Pizza Den
Just a few doors down from Saturn Pizza, Pizza Den serves some unique pies, all of which have the option of gluten free crust and vegan cheese. The restaurant has a modern vibe and offers little else — just a few appetizers and salads — other than pizza. Although all of their pizzas sounded enticing, I felt as though this list wouldn’t be complete without the Northeast signature pizza dish: a tomato pie. Proof also offered a tomato pie, which they topped with tomato sauce, garlic, and oregano. Pizza Den’s pie had a slightly different tomato sauce, garlic, olive oil, and basil. As evident in the ingredients, tomato pie is naturally a vegan pie. Pizza Den does offer vegan cheese though, so you can also order a vegan version of any of their specialty pizzas.
Teresa’s Pizza & Wine Bar
For my final pizza, I wanted something that resembled breakfast. I had dessert, lunch, and dinner pizzas, but I hadn’t found any kind of replacement for Proof’s breakfast pizza, which featured sweet sausage, bacon, pork rolls, and three eggs. I decided to go to a more upscale place for this one and try Teresa’s Pizza & Wine Bar brunch menu, which is only available on weekend mornings. The restaurant, located on Palmer Square, has a cozy interior and an airy outdoor patio that makes you feel like you’re in a warm Italian café. Unlike the other places on this list, brunch features far more than pizza, with a wide range of appetizers and entrées.
The brunch menu offers a savory breakfast pizza called pizza all’huovo, which has pancetta, fior di latte, egg, and rosemary. Like a true Italian café, Teresa’s brings out a whole personal pie for each order; there’s no option for ordering by-the-slice. The crust was similar to Nomad’s crust: light, fluffy, and floury. It had a very nice chew and was probably my favorite out of all of the crusts that I tried. I thoroughly enjoyed the runny eggs on the pizza, though the richness of the egg yolk combined with the deep, salty flavor of the pancetta and creamy cheese felt a bit too heavy for me. I would not recommend eating this on any ordinary busy day, but for a higher-end pizza on a special meal out, Teresa’s is a great choice.
While campus may have just lost a long-running, easily-accessible pizza place, there are certainly plenty of other specialty options. If you have a car or bike, you can even visit further-off pizza places like Conte’s, Nomad, or Pizza Star. No matter where you choose to go, the Princeton area can provide any type of pizza you’re in the mood for.
Lulu Pettit is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for The Prospect from the suburbs of Philadelphia. She can be reached at lp3153[at]princeton.edu or her Instagram [at]itslulupettit.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Despite the overcast February days, love is in the air and students are in the perfect mood for romantic and platonic outings alike. Valentine’s Day is an optimal time to explore new spots around Princeton for a meal or small bite. In no particular order, here are five places near campus that you should consider going with your Valentine’s date.
Though most students favor Small World or Junbi, it may be worthwhile to diversify one’s coffee shop repertoire. Maman — a bright, aesthetically pleasing café that sits in the back corner of Hulfish Street — ought to be appreciated as much as its Witherspoon counterparts.
Along with a variety of standard coffees, teas, and matcha drinks, there is a stunning array of pastries, sandwiches, and other breakfast-inspired treats that one can choose from to accompany their favorite beverages. Some of the savory options include quiches or tartines, while Belgian waffles and cruffins provide a sweeter alternative.
The café’s charming atmosphere and spacious layout, enhanced by its natural interior design and decor, create a blissful, slightly whimsical scene — perfect for a date with your special someone.
A small but cozy shop that offers savory, satisfying items like empanadas and grilled cheese sandwiches, Say Cheez Café is a great place for those seeking substantial snacks or light meals. Although they offer other side dishes like salads, soup, and fries, they are mostly known for their diverse array of grilled sandwiches, including paninis and cheesesteaks, as well as their empanada station.
Though takeout orders seem to be more common, one can certainly have their food right there while it is made fresh and still warm. You can sit at the counter seats and casually converse with your Valentine’s Day date while savoring delectable grilled cheese or flavorful empanadas.
If you are looking for something a bit more upscale to impress your date, then head over to Teresa Caffe (also known as Teresa’s Pizza/Wine Bar), an Italian sit-down restaurant that serves simple, but fulfilling dishes. Having gone here a few times with classmates and hometown friends, I would recommend the tagliatelle al funghi — a pasta with wild mushrooms, parmigiano-reggiano, burrata, and truffle oil — as well as the sausage and broccoli rabe pizza.
The trattoria’s vibe can be best categorized as an intermediary between casual and posh, making it an ideal place for Princeton students to get a glimpse of more chic dining establishments. As such, a date here with some delicious Italian food in an intimate, semi-fancy setting will be very romantic.
As an alternative to the artsy coffee shops prevalent in Princeton, Chez Alice Patisserie is a Parisian-style café that has vibrant-colored macaroons, decadent-looking cakes, and other scrumptious desserts like tarts and eclairs. Their croissants (especially the almond variety) and danishes are delicious as well.
The clean-cut, floral interior, along with the multiple miniature chandeliers hanging from the ceiling, create the atmosphere of a high-end tea house. Because of this, Chez Alice is a splendid option to enjoy some exquisite sweets and comforting beverages with your significant other for Valentine’s Day.
If you are tired of engaging in the Bent Spoon vs. Thomas Sweet ice cream debate, try the alternative: Halo Pub. Located on Hulfish Street, Halo Pub serves locally sourced artisan ice cream, along with coffee. They also have sundaes, floats, and milkshakes. Think of it as Bent Spoon or Thomas Sweet’s lesser-known, but equally impressive and slightly cheaper, sibling.
The classic glass display cases contribute to the timelessness of this ice cream shop. The outside display sharply contrasts with the mahogany interior, giving the place an elusive, rustic vibe. This moody, comforting ambiance acts as a perfect backdrop to take your date on an ice cream run.
Russell Fan is an associate editor for The Prospect at the 'Prince.' He can be reached at rf4125@princeton.edu, or on Instagram @russell__fan.
With spring here, Marley Hartnett-Cody, a contributing writer for The Prospect, explores the campus’s best outdoor study spots.
Associate Editor for The Prospect Gavin McLoughlin and Staff Writer for The Prospect Annika Plunkett take us inside the hidden basement bakery fueling Princeton’s dining halls with over 6,000 desserts a day.
Staff Writer for The Prospect Amanda Hugas analyzes campus fashion through the lens of backpacks, bags, and totes.With summer approaching, I am incredulous that my first year as a Princeton student is already coming to an end. Though the past two semesters had many hectic and stressful moments, I managed to make time for myself to decompress by exploring the wonders of Nassau Street. Trying new food on Nassau Street has been a way for me to not only get acclimated with downtown Princeton but also relax amidst the eventful, fast-paced days.
Despite regularly eating from the Asian food station at the NCW/Yeh dining hall, I regularly still crave a satisfying, Asian-cuisine meal. So, I have taken advantage of trying a few recently opened places on Nassau Street that offer an assortment of Asian dishes and snacks.
Ani Ramen House
Situated a few doors down from the Labyrinth Bookstore, Ani Ramen’s opening was highly anticipated. Its original location in Montclair, New Jersey was actually a 20-minute drive from my house, and my family and I had frequented the establishment before it had expanded. Therefore, I was curious as to how the food at the Princeton location would be.
When I walked through its doors for dinner in late February, I was met with a dimly lit space whose organized layout and sleek decor somewhat resembled the rustic, yet modern aesthetic of restaurants in Soho. Being in the mood for something gelatinous and savory, I ordered pork belly bao buns and shoyu ramen.
The buns were decently soft and elastic, making for a perfect base in which the slices of pork belly brought the right amount of saltiness and fat. The meat was tender, moist, and had a slightly crispy exterior. The cabbage slaw, pickled cucumbers, and drizzle of spicy miso mayo complemented everything by endowing a mild tanginess and freshness.
The warm broth of the ramen was much appreciated on a cold winter evening. The soup was infused with an unexpected pepperiness from dashes of black garlic oil, subverting a conventional chicken broth. Unfortunately, the thick pieces of pork belly were too lean, making them tough to chew on. The garnish of cabbage, leeks, and scallions narrowly redeemed the dish with a faint, fresh crunchiness.
Mochinut
During one of the study breaks hosted by my RCA, she bought a little over a dozen mochi donuts from the new Mochinut shop next to Ani Ramen. Though I don’t typically have mid-afternoon snacks, I decided to indulge in some sweets that day before dinner.
My RCA chose an array of flavors, including strawberry, guava pineapple, and churro. I decided to try the mango, oreo, and matcha ones. All of them were just the right amount of chewy — the texture of mochi donuts are supposed to simulate that of gummy mochi. The golden-yellow mango mochi donut did not have a strong fruity aroma, but it did exhibit a slight touch of citrusy sweetness. The oreo mochi donut’s glaze resembled a smooth, beige-gray sandy beach dotted with speckles of dark gravel that were the oreo crumbs. The oreo one was more sugary than I would’ve liked, but nonetheless was still enjoyable. The matcha-flavored one was by far my favorite. Its simplicity was enhanced by its subtle sweetness and mellow taste of matcha.
Despite the mochi donuts being somewhat too thickly glazed, these sweet rings of eight small balls congealed together still made for a great afternoon snack at our study break.
MTea Sushi & Dessert
On a cloudy Sunday, I needed a beverage to help me get through the day. Instead of getting a cold brew or matcha latte again, I decided to give MTea Sushi & Dessert a try for my morning drink.
The cafe’s interior was bright, with the neutral-color scheme of pearl white and smoke gray contributing to the clean-cut setting. Using the indoor kiosk, I ordered a Thai bubble tea. After a 5-minute wait, I received a large, tangerine-colored drink with a heap of tapioca pearls at the bottom.
It was refreshing to sip a delicately sweet milk tea that was not too diluted, perfectly balancing milk, sugar, and ice. The tapioca pearls were al dente, and thus enjoyable to chew on. In addition, I found comfort in the fact that the drink was parallel to the milk tea I had at authentic Thai restaurants. This amplified my appreciation for the cool, soothing beverage on a humid afternoon.
My colleagues seem to agree with my positive impression. Head Prospect Editor Claire Shin ’25 recounted how “at MTea [she] always [enjoys] the passion fruit green tea,” which she admitted was flavorful but is “more sour than sweet.” Furthermore, Shin raved about the crème brûlée mille crepe cake, which she detailed as “layers and layers of crepes, all glued together using cream and assembled into a single slice of cake with a thin layer of crème brûlée on top.”
Shin exclaimed that her senses “were overwhelmed by the rich taste” the first time she tried the pastry. Shin described how “it melts in your mouth, and then you’re left with the sweetness and hard texture of crème brûlée, leaving you with some crunch at the end.” She declared it as “the best thing that’s ever touched [her] tongue.”
Russell Fan is an assistant editor for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached at rf4125@princeton.edu, or on Instagram @russell__fan.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As Thanksgiving break approaches, it is an occasion to not only enjoy a traditional feast with family but also to try food from other cuisines. For me, Taïm — a self-described “Mediterranean kitchen” — is a wonderful step outside of the typical flavors in the Orange Bubble.
Located in the same shopping center as Nomad Pizza, its location in Princeton is one of many on the East Coast that are part of its franchise. Though Taïm’s menu was surprisingly simple, it still has enough items to satiate a customer’s appetite. Each main dish came with the option of being served either in pita or in a bowl with a base of the customer’s choosing. I ordered the chicken shawarma, described on the menu as a “Mediterranean classic,” and I customized it as a bowl with a hummus base, adorned with toppings of whipped garlic and crispy shallots. Meanwhile, my parents decided to make the falafel platter and fried cauliflower shawarma into pita sandwiches.
The golden-brown heads of cauliflower in the cauliflower shawarma gave a satisfying crackle as I bit into them. Mango sauce saturated the pita and shreds of pickled red onion asserted a moderate acidity. At the first bite of the sandwich, I was taken aback by the creamy, velvety hummus in the flatbread. The cauliflower shawarma performed a melody of textures, harmonizing with the hummus and pita.
Though the cauliflower shawarma was a delightful experience, the same could not be said for its chicken counterpart. When I dove into the chicken shawarma bowl, I found that though the chicken was decently savory, it was considerably stringy and dry as well. However, every other aspect of the bowl collectively redeemed the dish. The mini salad, consisting of diced cucumbers and tomatoes, provided a refreshing respite from the other relatively rich foods. In addition, the pickled red cabbage brought another facet of sharp contrast. To top it all off, the tahini and garlic sauce tied the bow with their respective nutty and pungent savors.
On the other hand, the falafels were rather forgettable. While they were enveloped in the warm pita, their extremely rough outer surface and semi-dry, crumbly interior ultimately made it my least favorite dish of the meal — though admittedly, the flavor and texture of the falafels improved when paired with tahini.
As for the sides, the toasted cumin rice was perfectly al dente and complemented all of the main dishes. The fries, likely an attempt to appeal to customers with hesitant palettes, were scrumptiously crispy. Their thin-cut lengths were the perfect size to dip in the saffron aioli and tart harissa ketchup that served as accompanying condiments.
This dinner brought back many vivid, pleasant memories of the Mediterranean cuisine in my hometown, similar to the experience of Einat Admony, Taïm’s chef and owner, who wrote on her website that flavors, smells, and sounds “flood [her] with memories and bring [her] instantly back to [her] childhood.”
She elaborated that cooking and food make her feel “whole” by acting as “a way to connect the past with the present and future.” Resonating with this message, especially after such an enjoyable and evocative meal, I felt the power that Taïm’s food had. “Taïm,” in fact, translates to “tasty” in Hebrew, and Admony’s restaurant certainly lives up to its name by evoking precious memories of food through its impeccable taste.
Russell Fan is a contributing writer for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ Please send correction requests to corrections at dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Princeton’s quintessential, student-run coffee shop has finally moved into the residential colleges.
The New College West (NCW) shop had its grand opening on Oct. 30, marking the second location for the café. Overlooking the lush green of Poe Field, Coffee Club’s newest location is housed within NCW’s Addy Hall. The modern location is a stark contrast to Coffee Club’s original location in the basement of Campus Club on Prospect Avenue.
The NCW café occupies a cozy corner within the sleek building. Soft ceiling lamps illuminate the dark floors and wood-paneled walls. An assortment of cushy chairs in different colors and patterns accompany the small tables, which are perfect for a laptop and a steaming cup of coffee. A grand piano separates the open seating arrangement from the lounge, while large windows allow for natural light and prime views.
As I approached the counter, I was invited by a balloon display that spelled out “celebrate” and a chalkboard of drink options. The lineup includes the same well-known drinks from the Campus Club location. Overwhelmed by the number of choices, I requested the advice of three friendly baristas, who recommended the new fall drink: the honey cardamom latte. By the time I arrived at 3:30 p.m., most of the snacks, which Coffee Club buys from The Gingered Peach, a local bakery, were long gone. I selected a brownie, a classic option.
The honey cardamom latte was the embodiment of a fall drink. The honey balanced spice with sweetness, and the use of cardamom gave the drink earthy and herbal notes, pairing beautifully with the slight bitterness of the coffee. The harmony of the different flavor groups added depth and uniqueness to the drink, elevating it beyond a traditional latte. As someone who enjoys especially strong coffee, the drink was a little milky for me, and the ground cardamom added a slight grittiness that occasionally caught in my throat. However, given the perfect fall feeling of well-balanced flavors, I would still highly recommend the latte, especially during this time of year.
The brownie was a delightful spin on a classic dessert and paired wonderfully with the latte. It had a dense, fudgy texture inside, while the edges had a crisp, flaky quality. It had a deeply chocolatey flavor, complemented by a nutty undertone. Melted chocolate chips added to the overall richness and textural diversity of the treat. The brownie was sweet, but not overwhelmingly sugary. Instead, it was a perfect afternoon snack before a late night of studying.
The next day, I returned to NCW’s Coffee Club at a significantly earlier time. The line was a bit longer, filled with tired students eager for a morning pick-me-up. However, the pastry selection was also far more expansive, and only a few of the most popular items were missing. I whipped out my punch card, ordered a chocolate chip banana muffin and a vanilla iced latte, and enjoyed a late breakfast.
The iced vanilla latte is a classic cold drink that Coffee Club does exceedingly well. The drink had subtle tones of vanilla that enriched but didn’t overpower the drink. There was also a slight sweetness that balanced the vanilla without being too sugary. The drink was on the milkier side, but the espresso shot added a deep coffee flavor and provided a welcome energy boost. Even on a crisp fall day, I deeply enjoyed the iced latte.
The chocolate chip banana muffin was a great breakfast item, especially on the go. The large chunks of chocolate added a velvety texture and rich chocolate flavor. The muffin itself was dense and sticky from the banana, providing a nice contrast to the chocolate mixed throughout. The muffin top was a crisp cover to the moist, soft muffin underneath. The muffin had a strong banana flavor, so I would especially recommend this item for all the banana lovers on campus.
NCW’s Coffee Club is a fantastic addition to Princeton’s coffee scene. It has a warm atmosphere, delicious drinks, and a great variety of pastries — although they very quickly sell out. Head over to NCW to “celebrate” Coffee Club and be sure to grab a honey cardamom latte while you’re there.
Isabella Dail is a member of the Class of 2026 and a contributing writer for The Prospect at the 'Prince.' Please send correction requests to corrections@dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Welcome to Tiger Town Treats — a new Prospect series where I compare delicious snacks ’n sips from local businesses, so you know where to go to satisfy that one craving or reward yourself after that rough p-set!
Our first round of boba reviews was released right as the mega matcha chain Junbi was opening a new location on Witherspoon.
And we heard you on Tiger Confessions, #34257! Without Junbi, it seems, our comparison of Princeton’s boba was lacking. So as soon as midterms were over, I hopped right on over to the new shop to try their boba for myself, and here are my thoughts:
The newcomer: Junbi
Disclaimer: Because Junbi specializes in matcha, most people agree their “standard” would be a matcha milk tea with boba rather than a standard brown-sugar milk tea, so that’s what I tried.
Price: $5.00 (Junbi currently only offers one size, and it is similar to the large size at other boba chains like Kung Fu Tea.)
Boba Rating: 3/10
The boba pearls were noticeably smaller, harder, and chewier than other boba in town. They were difficult to chew, and there was relatively little boba in the cup given the size of the drink.
Milk Tea Rating: 4/10
As a matcha lover, I was a little disappointed. The milk tea was light and not overly sweet, which was refreshing. But I found the drink itself to be slightly bitter with a definite “matcha powder” taste. It reminded me of the Starbucks Matcha Latte but with slightly less sugar. It was good, but not a culinary statement by any means.
Vibe:
Junbi was similar to Ficus in that it is definitely catering to a particular aesthetic: I’ll be the first to admit that the Junbi drinks populating Princeton students’ Instagram feeds during Spring pause were flashy, fun, and full of color in the best way. In the physical shop, clean white decor and an abundance of succulents added to the sense of a modern, fresh reprieve from Princeton’s typical historical stuffiness.
Verdict:
While my first cup wasn’t overly impressive, I will definitely be heading back to try some of Junbi’s more innovative and dramatic drinks, like the staff favorites of the Cold Dirty Matcha (matcha with a shot of espresso, $5.50) or the Cold Strawberry Matcha with Milk ($6.50).

Tiger Town Treats—Ep.1: Boba!!  Full reviews link in comments ##boba ##princeton ##princetok ##ivyleague
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.A popular study break go-to, Jammin’ Crepes is well-known to many Princeton students. What the swarms of students attending these study breaks often fail to appreciate, however, is the restaurant’s incredible atmosphere. With wooden tables, hand-written chalk signs, and an array of mason jars to hold silverware, the rustic décor of the place is truly distinct. An array of different seating options, from bar-style tables to intimate two-person tables by the window, lend a sense of versatility. On a nice day, with lots of small colorful tables set up outside, the combination of Jammin’ Crepes’ beautiful surroundings and delicious food makes for an optimal dining experience. If you visit, be prepared to be welcomed graciously into this abode by friendly servers who are eager to optimize your experience.
For those students who haven’t yet made it out to a Jammin’ Crepes study break, here are the menu’s most important features: Jammin’ Crepes uses its freshly made crepes as vessels for locally sourced fillings. With options ranging from the Jammin’ Turkey Club (turkey breast, bacon, mozzarella, local greens, and a house-made aioli) to brownies in a blanket (double chocolate brownies wrapped in a sweet crepe paired with Bent Spoon vanilla ice cream and salted caramel sauce), there is something on the menu to satisfy any member of your party. Even though crepes are its specialty, it also offers a variety of other breakfast and lunch foods, like seasonal soups and salads as well as oatmeal and yogurt parfaits. Jammin’ Crepes also prides itself on its support of other local businesses, such as The Bent Spoon and Small World Coffee. The restaurant allows its customers to always feel good about the food they’re eating by placing an emphasis on sustainability, fresh products, and the support of local businesses.
Having previously tried the Fruit-Tella crepe (the signature hazelnut and chocolate spread combined with a seasonal micro-batch local fruit jam), I decided to step out of my comfort zone and try a savory crepe called the Veggie Goat, which had seasonal roasted veggies, fresh goat cheese, and fresh baby arugula with a balsamic glaze. After a very short wait time, I quickly received my crepe, and was pleasantly surprised to see how fully filled it was. Almost overflowing with vegetables, the crepe had the perfect ratio of vegetables, cheese, and sauce in every bite. I also tried a classic dessert crepe called the Classic Toasty Cinnamon, which is a simple sweet crepe filled with browned butter and Jammin’ Crepes’s signature cinnamon sugar mixture. Again, there was a satisfactory ratio of filling to crepe, and while not quite as large of a serving as the savory crepe, it was still delicious.
Overall, my visit to Jammin’ Crepes was a highly enjoyable experience filled with friendly people, pleasant food, and a unique atmosphere. The restaurant was interesting enough to be memorable, without feeling forced. Little quirks like tables labeled with cards instead of numbers for the servers, an eclectic assortment of silverware, and the black and white checkered paper wrappers around the crepes all contribute to a fun and tasty experience.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The rich, nostalgic smell of syrupy pancakes, buttery eggs, and salty homefries wafts onto Nassau Street. It’s 11 a.m., and a line has already formed out the door of the Princeton staple PJ’s Pancake House. Over the past month, new signs surrounding the establishment have read: “We’re not just breakfast anymore!” and “Now Serving: Artisanal Brick Oven Pizza.” The town classic is now moving beyond just breakfast, breaking into a wider range of menu items.
As stated on their website, PJ’s Pancake House has been around for a whopping 62 years and is best known for its breakfast and brunch options, including over 20 different mainstay pancake varieties, as well as a rotating special. Since 2011, when ownership shifted, the menu has turned to include more lunch options, and has expanded to include vegan, vegetarian, and gluten-free options to accommodate evolving dietary preferences and needs. The only meal they’re not commonly associated with is dinner — which the restaurant now hopes to change.
Pizza is now fresh on PJ’s menu. PJ’s co-owner John Procaccini shared details on why he thinks the restaurant’s pizza stands out.
“My recipes, and our sauce, and our cheese, and our oil, all that stuff is imported directly from Italy, and the flavor is just completely different,” Prococcini told The Daily Princetonian.
Prococcini also shared that PJ’s uses double zero flour for their homemade pizza dough, which is an extremely refined type of flour that creates a soft, slightly stretchy, and outwardly crispy crust and is seen as the gold standard for pizza dough. The sauce is also made in-house, using San Marzano tomatoes imported from California with the remaining sauce ingredients being imported from Italy.
Despite having a casual diner vibe, PJ’s takes their pizza very seriously. Along with the quality ingredients, Prococcini told the ‘Prince’ that PJ’s spent weeks installing a brand-new brick oven, which is used exclusively for the pizza.
But why, out of all dinner foods, choose pizza for the menu?
According to Procaccini, there’s a “lack of quality pizza in town… where students could actually access or walk to easily” — something that could be contested, despite the recent closure of Proof Pizza.
Procaccini clarified that he’s “not saying [the other options are] not good, just… they’re different” when compared to PJ’s “artisanal” recipes. Coming from an Italian-American family closely connected to their European culture, Procaccini shared that as a kid, he “never went to the pizza shop” because his mother could always “make it better.” At PJ’s, he wants to continue using the family recipes he learned from her.
For now, the pizza is only available after 4 p.m. at the Nassau Street location in order to boost dinner sales specifically. At the other locations, a full bar helps attract evening customers, which the Nassau location lacks. According to Procaccini, pizza sales have doubled for PJ’s each week as more and more people learn about it. Most of the sales have been from sit-in customers, with only a few calls for takeout pizza, which Procaccini hopes to change as word continues to spread and dinner sales increase.
“All my life,” Procaccini said, “[I’ve] been trained to understand [pizza].” With their new brick oven and old family recipes, PJ’s offers something fresh in their well-known, homey environment.
Lulu Pettit is a member of the Class of 2027 and a staff writer for The Prospect from the suburbs of Philadelphia. She can be reached at lp3153[at]princeton.edu or via her Instagram [at]itslulupettit.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.When I first arrived at Princeton, I thought my only obligation as a student was to try my hand at every opportunity that presented itself to me. In my mind, this meant taking the most interesting classes and meeting as many people as possible. It meant doing anything and everything I could ever want to do. To me, college was a time to be selfish. I worked hard to get here — why shouldn’t I make the most of it?
I’ve realized, though, that as much as the University feels like the center of my universe, there is more worth caring about than just myself and my immediate surroundings. As much as the University has a community of its own, Princeton cannot disentangle itself from the surrounding town. Indeed, many of the reasons I’m excited for my next four years lie beyond Princeton’s campus.
I take for granted many of the things that I enjoy about the University. I often forget that the reason my bathroom is clean every morning and that I have food to eat for every meal is because of the people from the surrounding communities who work here. I find joy in newly paved pathways on campus and boba at every other event, but it doesn’t register that it’s thanks to the community around the University that we’re able to enjoy them. In reality, every part of the University that makes it my home is tied to the community supporting it.
In fact, I owe it to Princeton, the town where I chose to spend my college years in the first place. The area was a big part of why my parents were happy to see me enroll here. Instead of spending the most influential years of my life in a terrifying megacity or the middle of nowhere, I’d be in a picture-perfect college town.
After coming here, I’ve seen how often students and administrators act like the town is a source of pride for the University, even when it has little to do with us and everything to do with the community around us. The University’s website boasts about “the charm of Princeton,” creating an image of the town as an idyllic haven with “tree-lined neighborhoods.” Yet, all of this promotion occurs without any proposal of a deeper commitment to the town.
We Princetonians often fail to demonstrate care for the places or people beyond campus. We’re not exactly flocking to town events or vying to work off-campus. We don’t even mention the town beyond complimenting the color of the leaves and complaining about how little there is to do. More often, we’re content to ignore the world outside campus entirely, even when it’s precisely the community around us that makes life here possible. The town is our home for four years, and it offers us so much that we need and enjoy; surely we can do so much more for the place we live in, no?
Some of us already do. The Pace Center lists programs that work with immigrants, schools, and conservation efforts.  Other student groups, even those that are not centered around community service, integrate service into their clubs so that members can get involved with the community through their pre-existing interests. Princeton University Ballet heads a chapter of Ballet & Books, where students plan extracurricular activities for young children to improve their literacy. The Figure Skating Club leads a skating program with the Special Olympics of Mercer County. Even if it’s through their membership in a club, students gain a sense of responsibility towards the community, and the community benefits in turn. However, too few students participate in these programs and stay siloed within the campus’s walls.
It does not take being a member of a committed organization to contribute to the town; any number of personal choices can change the campus’s attitude of ambivalence towards supporting the people who support us. Students could take more jobs off-campus;  we’d see and meet more of the town than most of the University ever would. It would also be more meaningful to serve the members of the community in roles that are not always noticed but nevertheless essential. There are classes at the Arts Council and Pure Barre that provide us with enjoyment while bringing us closer to the community’s institutions and its people. There are plenty of ways we can become closer to the town and local region. However, we don’t act on them because we’ve grown comfortable with the way things are.
Recognizing what this community offers us is the first step toward finding gratitude. Acting on that gratitude is the first step toward giving a part of ourselves to the town in return. There is a great deal to enjoy about our experience on campus, but that doesn’t mean we should seclude ourselves either. There’s a wide world outside the campus we live in — a world to explore, contribute to, and leave our mark on. We can start with the one right outside the gates.
Sarah Park is a first-year intending to pursue a major in comparative literature. She is from Manila, Philippines, and can be reached at sarahpark@princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.There is a legend that 50 percent of Princetonians — or 75 percent, depending on who you ask — end up marrying other Princetonians. This myth has been told on Orange Key Tours, written about in the New York Times, and passed through many students, though no one can pinpoint exactly where it came from.
Around 50 Princetonian marriages take place at the Princeton University Chapel each year. To exit those heavy oak doors as a wedded couple is a privilege granted only to Princetonians or someone marrying a Princetonian. The venue is available for students, staff, faculty, alumni, emeritus faculty, and the children of each of those categories, according to Reverend Alison Boden, Dean of Religious Life and of the Chapel.
“That [policy] is only to make sure the chapel is available to Princetonians who want to use it,” Boden said, “or all the world would love to use this space.”
When couples write to Boden to book the chapel for their weddings, they often include personal anecdotes from their relationship.
“Sometimes, they’ll just tell me about how much the chapel meant to them as undergrad[s] or grads, if they met here,” Boden said. “All the time they spent here either just giving themselves a break from Firestone in the evening and just sitting there, chilling, praying, or getting themselves centered. Other times they tell me how meaningful the place was because of all the religious services they went to or they sang in the choir.”
Students’ experiences at Princeton can lead to relationships that last beyond the day they walk out of FitzRandolph Gate. The campus holds a special place in the hearts of those who find the love of their life here. But what is it like to find true love in the Orange Bubble, and how common is it? With Valentine’s Day on the horizon, I spoke with four Tiger couples to find out.
“We just kept bumping into each other throughout college,” said Liz Hoffman ’93 when describing how she and her husband, Mark Hoffman ’93, met all those years ago.
The pair first crossed paths in a Spanish class during the first semester of their first year.
Their first date was at the Garden Theater, where they watched the movie Glory, a civil war drama. Despite the movie being “not super romantic,” as described by Liz, the pair walked home together and shared their first kiss beneath Joline Arch. They officially started dating in the spring of that year.
After a few months of dating, they decided to go separate ways at the end of the year. “We both remember the talk at the [SPIA] fountain which resulted in the friendzone,” said Liz. “It was a mutual understanding.”
Mark remembers it differently. “She broke up with me,” he said.
Looking back on the experience now, they agreed it was the right call. It allowed them to spread their wings and experience different parts of Princeton separately. The two found different friend groups and joined different eating clubs, with Liz in Charter Club and Mark in Campus Club.
“It was nice because we were able to share a lot of things, but then also have our own experiences,” said Liz.
Though they went separate ways, they continued to run into each other and remained friends throughout their time at Princeton.
Liz recalled a time senior year when she and her mom were moving her back into her dorm in Little Hall. As they were carrying heavy boxes in the rain, they ran into Mark. “I introduced them, and they just chat[ted] and chat[ted]. No one was helping me move in, and I [was] getting kind of annoyed,” said Liz.
“I knew what I was doing,” said Mark. “I should’ve been helping her move her heavy boxes in, but I was having a nice conversation with her mom … You always gotta make sure that the mom is happy. ”
After that introduction, any time Liz would complain about her love life to her mom that year, her mom would respond with: “Well, what about that cute boy in the parking lot? There’s always the cute boy in the parking lot.”
“And so now I like to joke that this was an arranged marriage by my mom,” said Liz.
Near the end of senior year, with a lot more time on their hands, the pair found their way back to each other. “I want to give hope to all the seniors everywhere that there is life after your senior thesis,” said Liz. “You will have a lot more time. We had a lot more time.”
They both agreed it was after they turned in their theses when things started to get serious between them again. Attending the P-Rade together was a moment that really stood out to Mark.
“As the P-Rade goes by, we’re standing there in front of Clio Hall, and she takes my hand,” said Mark. “I was over the moon. I remember thinking: ‘I’m not gonna let go of her hand.’”
And he didn’t. After a bit of long-distance dating post-graduation, in which Liz’s mother always asked “Why couldn’t you have dated this boy when [he] was in the next dorm,” the pair got married. Many of their Princeton pals attended the wedding.
The two now live in Seattle with their three kids — two of whom now also attend Princeton. Their son, Ryan Hoffman ’25, met his girlfriend, Nina Boudet ’25, the second week of school and they became best friends for their first six months at school before dating.
“Nina was my first close friend when I arrived, and I’m insanely lucky that such a genuine friendship has become so much more,” said Ryan. “I can’t believe I met my future wife only two weeks into Princeton.”
The name in the Hoffman’s family joint email address is “5 tigers.”
“It is kind of remarkable that Mark and I stayed in touch all those years, but I think it has to do with the size of Princeton,” said Liz. “There are some Princeton elements that are unique to Princeton. I think that kind of lends itself to staying in touch, staying connected.”
Though the couple does not remember exactly how they first met, Pythias Temesgen ’09 and Natalia Temesgen ’08 remember a few interactions that kickstarted a long and valuable friendship during their time at Princeton. While Pythias was working as the Frist building supervisor, Natalia worked at the Frist Welcome Desk, and they crossed paths frequently during this period.
“I remember meeting Natalia my [first] year at Frist, and making small talk, thinking she was really cool,” said Pythias.
They recalled the day Natalia got fired from working at the Frist Welcome Desk.
“She got the email [that fired her] when she was asleep, and she rushed to Frist before reading it. It was super awkward,” Pythias said, adding, “and then I lost the [building] keys for like three hours and didn’t tell anyone.” They both laughed, reflecting on the mess of that day. But that was how they remember it starting: at the Frist Welcome Desk, interacting as employees, before becoming friends.
When Pythias was named president of the Black Student Union, Natalia was head of the Black Arts Company and a part of Expressions Dance Company. The pair would frequently trade emails about happenings within both of those groups.
Later, when Natalia’s then-boyfriend was unable to go to Cap and Gown formals with her, it was Pythias who tagged along.
“We have the photo from that night in front of the Cap stairs,” said Natalia. “We looked like babies, beautiful babies though.”
It was the summer after Natalia’s junior year when things started to change. “We went from being sort of in the same friend group networks to being really good friends,” said Pythias.
“I remember the summer before my senior year, we would talk on the phone a lot,” said Natalia. “This would be the kind of phone calls that people who fall in love have. You know, two hour phone calls, but we both just enjoyed each other’s minds so much and made each other laugh.”
When asked when Pythias started to like her, he answered, “from the very beginning. I don’t think there was ever a time when I was not thinking [she] was incredible.” Despite bringing the idea of a relationship up a few times with Natalia, her response was often the same: “Don’t be ridiculous.”
It was after they both had graduated that that response changed. On Pythias’s birthday, he visited her in New York. When asked what he wanted for his birthday, his answer was “to go out with [Natalia].” Her first instinct was to shut it down, to use their friendship as an excuse, but something made her consider it this time.
“I remember it took maybe a couple days to think about it,” Natalia explained. “I talked to some friends about it, and I prayed about it. I took it very seriously.” The primary concern was ruining their years-long friendship. After much thinking, she came to a conclusion.
“I think I trust our friendship enough that this can’t break our friendship,” Natalia noted. “I think that even if this is a mistake, we can still be friends. So let’s just try it.”
“Even though our road has been a little bumpy, there’s always been a through line of ‘well, how do I improve, and how can we help each other do that?’” said Natalia. She noted that maybe this was a reason a lot of Princetonians marry other Princetonians — a certain reflective quality that always pushes them to be more.
“It’s not nerdiness, per say, but just a sort of aspirational quality of thirst for [knowledge],” she said.
In 2012, they got married, and in 2013, they welcomed their first child.
The Princeton University Chapel is a meaningful location for Shelby Brainard ’22 and Katherine Brainard ’19. It’s the spot where Shelby would play the organ while Katherine studied, the spot where they would worship, the spot where Shelby proposed, and eventually the spot where they were married.
The pair met for the first time during a first-year-only study break that Katherine, a senior at the time, was crashing for the free acai bowls. Shelby had just returned from a Bridge Year in Indonesia, and he immediately caught Katherine’s eye.
“I saw this guy standing there with a vintage Princeton sweater through the doorway of the Mathey Common Room, and I made a comment to my friend. He looked so classy, like a vintage Princeton postcard,” said Katherine.
As luck would have it, Katherine’s friend knew Shelby and introduced the pair. What’s more, the pair also shared a Christian ethics class, were both part of the Christian Union (formerly known as Princeton Faith and Action), and both lived in Mathey.
“We just started bumping into each other a bunch and got along really well,” said Katherine.
For their first date, they went to Teresa’s Pizza for dinner, the Bent Spoon for dessert, then to Princeton’s swing dance club to end the night.
After a few months of dating, Shelby created a scavenger hunt around campus for Katherine. It was based on all the places around campus that were meaningful to them. The game included places like Murray-Dodge Café, where they spent hours hanging out and playing chess, and Tower Club, where Katherine was a member. The date ended at Joseph Henry House, where Shelby had set up a candle-lit Italian dinner.
Shelby returned to this theme for his proposal. The proposal started at Nassau Hall and toured around the campus, stopping at all the places that were significant to the couple. At each location, a close friend or family member would greet Katherine, “reading from a scroll [her] life story in fairytale language.”
At each stop, she also got a word. By the time they reached the last location, the chapel, the words added up to one sentence: “Katherine, will you marry me?”
Shelby had originally planned to propose in Prospect Garden, but rain spelled a change of plans. He shifted his plan, complete with a trio of musicians, to the chapel. The pair got married in the exact spot where Shelby proposed.
“I think you go through the fire while you’re at Princeton, in that it’s a place where you’re really refined. You are pushed to your limits, and what’s beautiful about your Princeton relationships and friendships is that you’ve done it together.” said Katherine. “I think it gives you a better understanding of your spouse. You are able to understand them on a deep, deep level only a Princetonian can truly appreciate.”
Haley Choueiri ’25 was sure she wasn’t going to become a part of the 50–75 percent statistic her RCA told her in her first year. But two years later, I sat across the table from her and her wife, Reema Choueiri ’25, as they recounted their love story to me. The two met through a mutual friend who connected them via Instagram. After a few weeks of exchanging DMs, they switched to texting, which turned into a first date at Junbi.
Their first date was seven hours long. After leaving Junbi, they didn’t want to say goodbye. So, they walked three miles along the towpath into another town, just chatting away. They had dinner before walking the towpath back to campus.
They started dating a few weeks later when Reema elaborately asked Haley to be her girlfriend through a Spotify playlist that spelled out, through songs, the question: Haley, will you be my girlfriend?
“We walked across the middle of [Poe Field] at night, and it was so romantic, and the stars were out,” said Haley, speaking about that experience.
Nearly two years later, the pair is married and lives in married housing on campus as they finish out their junior year.
“It first started out as a joke,” said Haley, “We like to travel a lot, and we’d see the county magistrate office, and I [would be] like ‘What if we got married right now?’ And then eventually, it wasn’t a joke anymore.”
Reema proposed a year after they started dating, on a hike that overlooked New York City.
“When you know, you know,” she said, smiling.
The uniqueness of their marriage is not lost on them. Whenever she mentions her wife in class or somewhere else, she gets a variety of responses, often shock.
“But it’s been really heartwarming to see the reaction and reception from other people. [They] really root for us,” added Haley.
Haley also shares details about married life while in college on her Instagram profile. She’s posted wedding photos, answered questions about married housing, and more.
“I think a lot about our presence on social media,” she said. “Sometimes that’s a source of stress and targeting for queer people, but then it also can be a source of strength for the community and representation a lot of people need and love.”
They got married in Haley’s hometown of Fayetteville, NC over the summer. They had time to honeymoon and relax in Reema’s hometown of Charlotte, NC, before returning to school for their junior year.
“I love telling my friends I have a wife,” said Haley.
Dean Boden, who oversees all applications for chapel weddings, said she only sees a handful of intra-Princeton marriages.
“[Applicants] definitely tell me in their letter that they met while at Princeton, but that’s a minority of people,” said Dean Boden. “I would say a majority of people are [cases where only] one has a Princeton affiliation.”
I asked the couples what they made of this myth. Some had heard it for the first time when I told them, while others were familiar with it. However, few of the couples agreed that the statistic was actually that high.
Pythias and Natalia said they would lower the statistic to around 20–30 percent, Mark and Liz placed the figure around 20 percent, and Shelby and Katherine predicted it was in the 7–10 percent range. Haley and Reema were more optimistic, suggesting the statistic might be around 50 percent.
While the Choueiris admit they may be biased in thinking the statistic is 50 percent, they do have a hypothesis to back it up. They proposed that in coming back to Reunions, many alums reconnect and boost the figure.
The Hoffmans observed this when returning for their 30th Reunion.
“There seemed to be a lot more people who had married other Princetonians than at the time [as undergrads],” said Mark.
So, maybe this supposed group of 50–75 percent of Princetonians aren’t finding each other on campus, but after, in life post-graduation. Whether true or not, this myth acknowledges something special about Princeton. The small, tight knit undergraduate body can give way to some long-lasting relationships. Pythias expressed that these special relationships make the Princeton experience all the more worthwhile.
“Folks are attracted to Princeton I think for the same reason why a bunch of Princetonians marry,” Pythias said. “It’s because it’s so undergraduate-focused, and it’s so intensely about this small, tight knit group.”
Katie Thiers is a staff Features writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.
Welcome to Princeton! Whether you’re a new student, returning from some time away, or feeling lost as the new school year begins, Daybreak has some tips on how to make the most of your time under the Orange Bubble. Listen in!
Today, we take you inside late-night study culture on campus. Our team explored no fewer than eight popular campus study spots—from the high, arched ceilings of Lewis Library to the cozy blue couches in Addy Coffee Club.
Today on Daybreak, we dive deep into Bicker and other admissions process for the eating clubs.
In this episode of Brains, Black Holes, and Beyond, Aanya Kasera sits down with Dr. Leslie and Dr. Lombrozo, professors and researchers who are part of heading the brand new interdisciplinary research initiative, Natural and Artificial Minds (NAM).As Princeton students finish their last midterms before fall break, the Honor Code pledge is becoming second nature to many. Princeton’s Honor Code binds students to a set of academic integrity intended to be upheld by the student body. The Honor Code has been praised by some as a way to promote dignity and integrity, while its disciplinary process has been criticized by some as a mentally taxing and unfair.
How many students have dealt with the Honor Committee and Committee on Discipline, the two administrative bodies that govern academic violations and investigate and prosecute possible violations, in the last year? The Daily Princetonian looked at the statistics released by the two committees to see offenses students have been accused of for the most recent year with an available report and how many of these cases result in a student being found responsible. The statistics demonstrate again that the bulk of cases fall on the Committee on Discipline, whose case load is staggeringly high compared to the Honor Committee.
The Honor Committee is made up of 15 students, and decides on appropriate consequence after it issues a finding of responsibility – anything from a reprimand to an expulsion. Consequences can be appealed to the Office of the Dean of the College. Between fall 2017 and spring 2022, about 18 percent of cases referred to the Honor Committee resulted in a student facing punishment for their actions. A slightly smaller percentage of cases – 17 percent – progressed to a formal hearing, but did not result in a student being found responsible. This means that of the Honor Committee cases that had a hearing, just over half – about 52 percent – resulted in a punishment being handed down from the Committee.
The types of Honor Committee cases that had the highest percentage of students being held responsible were plagiarism and doctoring a regrade, though these categories only had one case each. Doctoring a regrade may mean changing a test that has been handed back and then returning it to ask for a regrade. Unauthorized use of materials had the next highest percentage of cases resulting in punishment, with 23 percent of reported cases leading to a student being found responsible of wrongdoing.
No students who were accused of removing an exam from a room, copying from a peer, or failing to submit an exam were found responsible by the Honor Committee for their alleged violations.
The most common type of Honor Code violation reported is the unauthorized use of materials, representing about 40 percent of all cases. More than half of the cases in this category did not specify the type of unauthorized material used, with almost a third of these resulting in punishments. Of the unauthorized materials specified by the Honor Committee, phones were the most common material used, with eight violations reported. Just two of these students were found responsible for unauthorized phone use during an exam.
Students have also been disciplined for breaking University policies outlined in the Rights, Rules and Responsibilities. These punishments are handed out by the Committee on Discipline, made of students and faculty. Since the Committee on Discipline has jurisdiction over a broad range of non-academic violation and any academic violation outside of an in-class exam, the number of cases are much higher by an order of magnitude.
In contrast to the more limited role of the Honor Committee, the Committee on Discipline has a much wider scope in terms of types of violations and caseload. 1,072 cases were referred to the Committee on Discipline in one year compared to just 76 for the Honor Committee over four.
The most common Committee on Discipline case type from the 2021-2022 school year was Health and Safety, representing almost 70 percent of the case total. Of these 742 cases, 730 resulted in students being held responsible. According to the disciplinary report, “the vast majority of the health and safety violations were regarding noncompliance with COVID and public health policies,” with reprimands coming after a warning. Of the 164 alcohol cases reported, 157 resulted in students found responsible for violating University rules, 109 of which came from a single, off-campus case.
While fewer than 20 percent of Honor Committee cases result in students being held responsible, over 95 percent of Committee on Discipline cases led to a findings of wrongdoing.
The Committee on Discipline has been criticized in the past for a more opaque decision-making process. In an interview with columnists for the ‘Prince,’ one anonymous member of the Committee said that certain other members lack “even a pretense of impartiality” during Committee hearings as demonstrated by “extremely leading questions.”
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ Dean of Undergraduate Students Kathleen Deignan wrote that “the Committee is explicitly told not to ask leading questions and to refrain from drawing any conclusions until they have heard from all parties during the hearing. We have not witnessed any student member of the Committee being pressured to assume anything about the facts until all information has been considered.”
For academic violations, the number of findings of responsibility by the Committee on Discipline seems to have declined over time, from 82 in the 2020-2021 school year to 50 in the 2021-2022 school year.
The harshest discipline the Committee handed down in the past school year was a one-year suspension, which they gave as punishment for a second academic violation in both cases where it was applied.
Students can be represented by Peer Representatives in cases facing both the Honor Committee and the Committee on Discipline.
Charlie Roth is a head Data editor and senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Ryan Konarska is an associate Data editor and staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.At the Oct. 6 meeting of the Undergraduate Student Government (USG), members voted to change the Honor Code process in two key areas, resulting in the approval of three additional seats in the Honor Committee and an adoption of the new “suspension (not served)” section.
This vote will allow the Honor Committee to expand from 15 members to 18, with the intention of ensuring a timely hearing for students accused of violating the Honor Code. In the past, the Honor Committee received several new cases at the end of the Spring semester due to cheating allegations related to finals. According to members of the committee, this made it difficult to promptly adjudicate cases, as members had to coordinate online and across time zones during the summer. The Committee hopes that the increased number of members will make these predictable spikes in caseload more manageable.
“[The] timeline of when the violation occurred affects how quickly a case can be heard,” said Honor Committee Chair Caroline Schückel ’25, who fielded questions on the expansion during the meeting. “That’s not what should be a deciding factor … cases being heard more quickly, and having extra capacity is really important because the anxiety that must come with knowing you have a case, and not knowing when it's going to be heard … takes a pretty heavy toll on people.”
Schückel stressed the importance of this expansion to support the student body, along with the second change in the Honor Code that also passed a senate vote. The new Honor Code now includes a section on the suspension (not served) disciplinary sanction for a case adjudicated by the Honor Committee.
This motion to implement the suspension (not served) sanction was approved unanimously by all members of the Senate. A factor contributing to its adoption is the harshness of a suspension. The University does not allow students to graduate in the winter, which effectively forces students to take an entire year away.
Schückel previously told the ‘Prince’ that the sanction is intended to carry the weight of suspension without requiring the student to leave the University, and will move the Honor Committee in a “kinder” direction.
“It’s really different to have someone be, essentially, not at school for a year versus probation for a semester,” she said. “Having suspension (not served) allows for ... a middle ground option.”
Schückel also facilitated the approval of five new members to the Honor Committee, selected through an application emailed to students. The selections were  unanimously approved by the Senate.
“These five stood out to us,” said Schückel. “We can teach people procedures, but we can’t teach people to be compassionate and to conduct themselves that way with students who are under investigation.”
The Senate will vote on an approval for the Undergraduate Student Life Committee’s budget request at a later date. The proposal includes funding for student roundtable discussions — first initiated in the Spring 2024 semester — as well as new projects that aim to bring together students and undergraduate student leaders. This request includes funding for wellness programming during finals week.
Devon Rudolph is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Honor Committee released statistics for the 2019–24 academic years at the end of March, following reporting from The Daily Princetonian on a two-year absence of the committee’s data, which are typically published annually. Data since 2022 had previously not been reported.
The statistics, released in a report aggregating data from the past five years, include violations of the Honor Code, such as collaboration with a peer, unauthorized use of outside materials, doctoring a regraded examination, writing overtime, and failing to submit an examination.
According to the Honor Committee’s constitution, the committee is composed of up to 18 members who represent the student body and address violations of the Honor Code. Article V states that “every year, the Committee will publish aggregated, anonymous statistics for the last five years.”
The chair of the Honor Committee, Nadia Makuc ’26, said that the delay in publishing the statistics was due to “clerical errors and miscommunication of responsibilities.”
Fifty-one violations of the Honor Code were reported from Fall 2019 to Spring 2024. Thirty-one of these went to hearings, or about 60 percent of all violations. Eighteen were found responsible, or 35 percent of all violations. Of the cases that went to hearings, 58 percent were found responsible.
The highest number of violations was for unauthorized use of outside material, including generative AI. These unauthorized uses of outside material made up 24 violations — or 47 percent of all violations — and 11 were found responsible.
The most commonly used kind of prohibited materials was listed as “other/not listed.” This consisted of 90 percent of all cases that were found responsible, or 10 out of 11 total. The use of generative AI falls into the “other/not listed” category.
The second highest violation was collaboration, which had 16 violations — 31 percent of all violations — of which two were found responsible.
From Fall 2017 to Spring 2022, the Honor Committee saw similar numbers. During that period, there were 76 violations, 27 of which were moved to a hearing and 14 of which were found responsible.
While the Honor Committee reviewed 51 infractions over the past five years, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board found 378 violations for the 2023–24 academic year alone.
Princeton’s Committee on Discipline is responsible for all academic integrity violations besides those that relate to in-class examinations. The committee consists of at least six members of the faculty, eight undergraduate students, and the Deputy Dean of the College. The committee also oversees behavioral violations, such as alcohol and drug use. According to the annual discipline report, many violations also get reviewed by the dean of undergraduate students through “Dean’s Dispositions” and the Residential College Disciplinary Board.
The possible penalties for those found responsible include a dean’s warning, a reprimand, disciplinary probation lasting three to 48 months, suspension lasting one to four semesters, a suspension not served, the withholding of a degree, and expulsion.
Of the 378 total infractions, the committee reported 63 academic infractions, for which 42 students were found responsible. These violations included plagiarism and collaboration without recognition.
The 2023-24 discipline report details an “increase in the use of generative AI,” such as ChatGPT, in the cases released from 2024. Ten cases involved the use of ChatGPT on take-home exams, where students copied directly from the AI chat.
The most common penalty for academic integrity violations was disciplinary probation, with 25 students receiving this penalty. Examples of where this penalty was used include a “very limited amount of plagiarism.”
According to the report, this type of violation also includes “reflecting carelessness rather than an intent to misrepresent authorship.” This includes instances where “the assignments were worth a small portion of the course grade,” or if the student failed to fully cite passages.
Of the 378 infractions, 158 were due to the use of alcohol — 42 percent of all infractions. One hundred and twenty-one students were found responsible. Low-risk alcohol violations included “the possession of an open container of alcohol in a common space” and having drinks with less than 30 percent alcohol content at the hosting of a gathering.
One of the penalties given to a student was 48 months of disciplinary probation for “submitting inaccurate information to the Financial Aid office” to obtain financial aid. Another student received 48 months for “striking a Department of Public Safety officer as they attempted to bring the student to medical care.”
The year before, from 2022–23, the disciplinary report disclosed 515 infractions, for which 336 students were found responsible.
Clara Docherty is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
Correction: this piece has been updated to better reflect the parties that hear the cases and the possible penalties imposed by the Committee on Discipline. Additionally, this piece has been updated to reflect that reported infractions are not referred cases; the lower number of students found responsible is because students can be found responsible for multiple infractions.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
Several academic departments have distributed emails warning community members about visits from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and information on what to do if officers come to campus.In the Undergraduate Student Government elections in December 2017, four referenda to amend the Honor Committee Constitution passed by a three-fourths majority. The referenda called for a range of reforms including increased transparency and reduced penalties. However, a few days later, the University announced that it would not permit the implementation of three of the four referenda because they were “too significant to be implemented without faculty approval.”
More than five years later, the ‘Prince’ reviewed annual reports and interviewed current and former chairs of the Honor Committee to hear their view about how their processes have changed since the rejected referenda. Honor Committee chairs note that many aspects of the proposed reforms were implemented following University administration’s approval and there have been other improvements to the process.
However, Honor Committee members also noted that the scope of the scale of the student-led Honor Committee pales in comparison to the student-faculty Committee on Discipline (COD). While the 2017 referendum drove the focus of reform to the Honor Committee, the COD handles the majority of disciplinary cases, including significantly more academic disciplinary cases.
Recent surveys have shown that the student body is deeply distrustful of the Honor Code.
For the second year in a row, The Daily Princetonian’s senior survey found that the Honor Code is extremely unpopular among students. This year’s survey revealed that 62 percent of respondents have a “strongly” or “somewhat unfavorable” view whereas only 16 percent have a “strongly” or “somewhat favorable” view. In 2022, those numbers were 55 percent and 23 percent, respectively.
These numbers may, in part, have been fueled by a ‘Prince’ investigation in 2021 which chronicled “a story of spiraling mental health, institutionalized alienation, and renewed hopes for reform.” There have been multiple criticisms of the Honor Committee in the ‘Prince’s pages: in 2022, Benjamin Gelman ’23 called on students not to  join the Honor Committee.
In the most recent Senior Survey, results found that most students do not feel optimistic about the trajectory of the Honor Committee with the vast majority of students saying there has been no improvement during their time at the University. The most recent substantial changes to the Honor Code were made three months prior to their matriculation.
“What I hope people will take away is that a number of the important reforms, like the standard penalty and whatnot, did wind up getting changed and have had a significant impact on the way the Committee does its deliberations,” said former Honor Committee chair Dylan Shapiro ’23.
The referenda introduced in 2017 had four parts: reduce the “standard penalty” to a one-semester suspension from a year-long suspension, require an additional piece of evidence outside of a report in order for a case to proceed to trial, prohibit students from getting in trouble from an Honor Code violation if their professor said it was allowed, and more clearly inform students of their role in a hearing when they are being informed.
The University initially rejected the first three, accepting the plank that witnesses to a hearing should not receive an email identical to the ones received by a student suspected.
Yet after a University process, the first and second proposals are now Honor Committee policy, along with other changes.
Dina Kuttab ’21, who led the Honor Committee as the reforms unfolded, recalled what followed the referendum..
“When those [2017 amendments] didn't go into effect, the administration put together a committee of students and faculty to say, okay, those reforms didn’t go into effect, but what can we do like what reforms can we implement that? Keep the spirit of like the student led reforms, while also like, being something that you can actually operationalize? And that works within the system,” Kuttab said
It ended up being a two-year process involving four report-producing committees, some of which were entirely faculty and some of which involved students, culminating with a Reconciliation Committee to finalize what changes to implement.
Since the release of the report, the Honor Committee has changed in significant ways. Prior to 2019, the standard penalty that the Honor Committee imposed on almost every student found responsible for a serious act of plagiarism was a one-year suspension. Now, that suspension is reduced to one semester.
At the same time, multiple Honor Committee chairs who spoke with the ‘Prince’ referenced that the University does not typically allow students to graduate in the winter. Therefore, when a student is suspended for one semester, they often need to take off an additional semester as a leave of absence. Current Honor Committee Chair Matthew Wilson ’24 highlighted this gap as a problem that should be sorted out.
According to Shapiro, the Committee has also adapted to the referenda and become more lenient in its sentences and now is permitted to use more discretion to ensure that its punishments reflect the details of the case. In order to ensure fairness, Shapiro said, the Committee has begun using a precedent system, citing past cases to when considering future punishments.
Another significant change to the Committee that was recommended by multiple reports is the elimination of character witnesses. Character witnesses would testify to the good character of the accused student before the change. The reasoning behind the change, according to Shapiro, is that the Committee assumes good character, rendering the witness redundant and a requirement that unnecessarily requires the accused to bring another person into their disciplinary process. The committee, as the referendum suggests, also no longer holds a hearing on a single report.
The only referendum policy that was not officially implemented in any form is that if the professor of the class where the incident takes place doesn’t want disciplinary action, there should be no action. While former chairs stated that this policy was not legally feasible, Shapiro told the ‘Prince’ that in practice, “[the Committee] would certainly take into consideration” the faculty member’s perspective when adjudicating a case.
Most students view the Honor Committee as a stand-in for the University’s disciplinary process at large: the Honor Committee, which dominates campus conversation around discipline and is a feature of freshman orientation. Before enrolling in classes at the University, students must sign the honor pledge.
However, the scope of the Honor Committee pales in comparison to the COD, which is not student led.
The members of the Honor Committee who spoke to the ‘Prince’ repeatedly emphasized that the administration and faculty have far more power than students in the disciplinary process, both through the COD and their veto power on any action taken by the Honor Committee.
In an interview with the ‘Prince,’ former chair of the Honor Committee Alston Carson ’22 said, “Obviously, it’s student run, I was literally the head of it, but I would say that for anyone who’s not on the committee, it would be really surprising to find out how much control is not actually possessed by the students.”

All cases of cheating during in-person examinations are under the purview of the Honor Committee, but every other violation of the Honor Code — essays, term papers, laboratory reports, and take-home examinations — in addition to non-academic violations of Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities, falls under the jurisdiction of the COD, which is comprised of 17 individuals, six of whom are students. On the other hand, the Honor Committee is entirely students.
“It’s an important talking point for the school that there’s a student-led honor committee, but what’s not really fully understood is that the Committee on Discipline, which is faculty led, has significantly more cases than the Honor Committee,” Carson continued.
In the 2021–2022 school year, the COD found 1,023 students responsible for disciplinary infractions, 50 of which were related to academics. The Honor Committee, which only releases statistics in five-year aggregates, found an average of 14 people responsible for violations of the Honor Code every year between 2017 and 2022. Throughout this time period, the Honor Committee only found the student responsible in 18 percent of cases referred to them. Of students whose cases made it to a hearing before the Honor Committee, 52 percent were found responsible.
There have been some changes to the COD. Most recently, peer representatives, who could assist students in Honor Code cases, can now assist students in COD cases. Yet compared to the referendum, the focus on the COD has not been equal.
“If the Honor Committee didn’t exist, that means all of the Honor Committees’ current cases would fall under the jurisdiction of the Committee on Discipline,” Wilson told the ‘Prince’
“The Committee on Discipline,” Wilson noted, “seems to get very little attention compared to the Honor Committee.”
Julian Hartman-Sigall is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.During the 2021-2022 school year, the Committee on Discipline (COD) heard 28 cases that resulted in a student’s separation from campus. Now, the COD is introducing a discipline sanction that may keep some suspended students on campus.
The COD implemented the “suspension (not served)” sanction as a consequence for violations where separation from the University may not be warranted. The new sanction falls between disciplinary probation and a one-semester suspension from campus in terms of severity, Deputy Dean of Undergraduate Students Joyce Chen explained in an email to The Daily Princetonian.
On Friday, the Honor Committee will vote on whether to implement the new sanction for Honor Code violations. While the COD investigates and rules on violations regarding academic work that takes place out of class and “serious non-academic misconduct,” the Honor Committee hears cases on potential academic misconduct during in-class examinations.
Between Fall 2017 and Spring 2022, the Honor Committee adjudicated 76 cases. During the 2021–22 academic year, the COD oversaw 1,072 cases.
Chair of the Honor Committee Caroline Schuckel ’25 told the ‘Prince’ that members of the committee were receptive at a preliminary meeting where the amendment was discussed.
“I think everyone on the committee fortunately aligns in the view that separating people from school, community, friends is not productive and is not something that people want to do,” Schuckel said.
If the Honor Committee votes to implement the suspension (not served) sanction, the Undergraduate Student Government (USG) will have the final vote on the amendment to the Honor Code at their meeting on Sunday.
Chen told the ‘Prince’ that she discussed the sanction during USG Ad-Hoc Committee meetings, as well as with several other peer institutions.
“From my conversations with the ad-hoc committee as well as other students over the years, it is my understanding that expanding the available sanctions to include suspension (not served) is appealing to students as well,” she said.
The idea was raised again at a quarterly meeting between members of the Honor Committee, University deans, and the Office of the General Counsel for the University. In the past, attendees also discussed the number of classrooms where exams take place that do not have clocks, leading students to check their phones to see how much longer they have to complete the exam.
Chen wrote that, if a student receives a suspension with or without separation from campus, the committees will consider whether their separation is “warranted.”
“As the facts of each case will differ, the disciplinary body will look at various factors, including the nature and seriousness of the violation, the nature and/or seriousness of any prior violation(s), or other circumstances that the body finds sufficient to permit suspension (not served),” she continued.
Schuckel hopes that the sanction, if added, will carry the weight of suspension without requiring the student to leave the University and move the Honor Committee in a “kinder” direction.
“I have had a hard time, in adjudication, with there being a lack of gray area between probation and suspension,” Schuckel said. “Those are pretty far apart penalties,” she added, expressing that the concept of suspension (not served) “always seemed like a very far away possibility.”
Like the traditional suspension, the new sanction would appear on a student’s transcript and their disciplinary record, which the University would release to a third party — like a medical school — if authorized by the student.
While Schuckel acknowledged the concern of some members of the Honor Committee that the sanction could be used in place of probation, she believes that cases would typically be “downgraded” to suspension (not served) instead of being “moved up from a probation.”
On Friday, the Honor Committee will also vote on an amendment to increase the size of the committee from 15 to 18 members in order to make scheduling easier and accommodate growing class sizes.
“We see this as appropriate,” Shuckel said. “I think as the University wants to grow class sizes, the reasonable inference would be that case number and case load could grow as well.”
Correction: A previous version of this article stated the Committee on Discipline (COD) heard 28 cases that resulted in a student’s separation from campus in 2023. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error.
Isabel Yip is a senior News writer for the ‘Prince.’
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Everybody loves a secret space. From rumors of a shrine to Danny DeVito hidden behind laundry machines in Little Hall to whispers of a network of underground tunnels darting across campus, there's a certain allure about little known spaces on campus.
While some of these places are somewhat mythological, others are real, if you know where to look.
So today, the Daybreak team got a tour of these tunnels to find out how they're used, where they go, and why they exist in the first place. Listen in.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.This content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
On Sept. 16, the administration released a statement announcing that a member of the first-year class was finally rescued from the wilderness of southern New York.
The identity of this individual, as confirmed by the administration, is Mark McCalister ’76. Currently 69 years old, McCalister claims he has been searching the forest of Harriman State Park for his first-year Outdoor Action (OA) group for the past 51 years.
According to members of ‘Bear With Me,’ the hiking club responsible for rescuing McCalister, he requested to be brought back to campus so he could clean up and finish his Orientation events. “He said he was looking forward to the Step Sing and having sex with every member of his ‘zee group.’ I’m not quite sure what that means,” said Frederick Boothe, the leader of the group.
“When we found him, he was completely naked, except for a bandana he had fashioned out of an excrement-stained ‘NIXON’S THE ONE’ t-shirt,” said Amy Castillo, a member of ‘Bear With Me.’ “He was curled up into a ball within a nest made of his own hair, possibly of armpit origin.”
In an interview with the Daily PrintsAnything, McCalister refused to speak to any female reporters, stating that he didn’t believe any of them attended Princeton or knew how to read.
During the interview, McCalister repeatedly yelled at reporters to find his high school girlfriend “Rachel something” who has red hair and “the meatiest calves I’ve ever laid eyes on.”
After returning to society and learning to use technology, McCalister’s first tweet read, “I can’t believe RFK is running for president again. I guess he recovered from that assassination attempt?”
While the administration is boasting a successful end to a decades-long search, local police records suggest that no search was ever conducted nor was a missing person ever reported.
According to the University’s enrollment archives, it appears that McCalister was stricken from the first-year class list in early September of 1972, following the return of OA groups to campus. Foul play is suspected.
Sophia Varughese ’26 is an associate Humor editor. Her therapist describes her as ‘clinically bangable’.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.Editor's Note: This piece has been updated with comment from University administrators.
As the sun set over Cannon Green on Oct. 27, around 1,000 University community members showed up to participate in a "Community Gathering" to close the University’s inaugural Community Care Day, which invited “the entire campus community to focus on rejuvenation, reflection, and camaraderie,” as described in an email by the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Students Ian Deas sent on Oct. 25. While more than 2,000 students, faculty, and staff attended the event throughout the day, classes were still held that day, leading to some conflicts with programming.
The day’s schedule, starting at 8 a.m. and ending at 6:30 p.m., included stations for free food and drinks, as well as yoga, hiking, a rock climbing wall, and watercolors, among other activities. From 5 to 6:30 p.m., undergrads, graduate students, and faculty and President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 mingled at the Community Gathering on Cannon Green. Anne Laurita is the director of health promotion and prevention at University Health Services (UHS), which helped organize the event. She told The Daily Princetonian that the day was created “for our campus community to come together in cultivating an environment at Princeton that supports mental health,” adding that many events were planned in collaboration with students.
In an email to the 'Prince,' Vice President for Campus Life Rochelle Calhoun said that the idea for the event came last spring when "both undergraduate and graduate students reached out to me to express their concerns about the collective sense of loss the community was feeling." The event took seven months to plan.
"The students shared that they wanted more space and time to focus on wellbeing and mental health as well as find ways for the community to come together," she said.
"Community Care Day, in and of itself, was not designed to address the critically important issue of mental health.  However, as a reminder that we all need to find ways to mitigate against stress, be in supportive community and find joy in our day, Community Care Day lifts up this awareness, celebrates our supportive community and encourages self-care. These all positive mental health practices," Calhoun said.
“It was great seeing my friends outside in the beautiful fall foliage,” Daniel Wang ’26 told the ‘Prince.’ “I haven’t seen this many people together outdoors in a while, and it definitely impressed a sense of community.”
Elisa Gonzalez ’27 attended the free coffee giveaway at Campus Club with her Spanish class.
“It was nice because we got to talk outside of class and connect. I also went to decorate cupcakes at Frist, and that was nice as well,” she said. “I think this day was a good thing. It’s just a nice little reminder to take a break sometimes.”
“Obviously it’s not a single day that is going to [permanently] change anything, but I was happy to see that this is something that is being talked about and that the University put thought into the quality and diversity of the activities that were offered,” Thiago Varella GS said.
Judy Jarvis, executive director for the office of campus engagement, which helped organize the event, wrote in a statement to the 'Prince' that "I spoke with a number of students and staff members throughout the day, and many shared how appreciative they were that the day didn’t ask much of them."
"Our working group wanted to create a schedule that offered a wide range of rejuvenating activities, because rejuvenation means different things to different people," she said.
Other students expressed their interest in Community Care Day activities, but had trouble attending due to busy class schedules, office hours, and assignments due by Friday evening.
“I think the whole principle of the day — prioritizing mental health and wellbeing over everything else — is undermined by not canceling classes. I couldn’t attend most of the events because I had classes all day,” said Laurie Drayton ’26 in an interview with the ‘Prince.’
Jarvis acknowledged that "organizing a truly campus-wide event that includes undergraduate students, graduate students, faculty, and staff, is complex because wellbeing and rejuvenation means different things to different people."
Other feedback concerned unclear communication from the University. Gonzalez told the ‘Prince’ that “it was hard keeping track of everything that was going on because the informational email was a little last minute.”
Community Care Day contributes to a broader campus effort in the past two years to support mental health and student wellbeing at Princeton. Recognition of this issue increased in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. Organizers of the event also mentioned the deaths by suicide of three students and one staff member in the past two years.
In September 2022, a working group formed between the University Student Government (USG), the Office of Campus Life, and UHS published a report evaluating existing mental health resources on campus. The report made a series of recommendations, including 24/7 on-demand Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS), funding for transportation to off-campus mental health services, and residential college staff training.
Laurita explained the need for the broad variety of mental health support services and programs.
“At Princeton, over the past several years, we have seen consistent increases in service utilization at [UHS’s] Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS),” she said. “This pattern aligns closely with national trends, with young adults’ self-reported mental health concerns and utilization of clinical services for these concerns on the rise.”
“The spirit of this inaugural Community Care Day contributes to a broader campus climate around bolstering community well-being. It is my hope that the event served both as one moment in time for meaningful connection and to complement ongoing, campus-wide initiatives that promote student well-being at individual, group, and systems levels,” she added.
Community Care Day came together as a collaboration between the Office of the Vice President for Campus Life, Campus Club, Campus Recreation, the Graduate School, the Graduate Student Government, Health Promotion and Prevention Services, Office of Human Resources, Office of Dean of Undergraduate Students, the Office of Campus Engagement, Outdoor Action, USG, and the Class of 1961 Foundation.
Meghana Veldhuis is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Rebecca Cunningham is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.When the first-year class descends upon Princeton’s campus each fall, they are ready to begin the next chapter of their lives. Their first steps include attending events with hundreds of new faces, completing dozens of orientation sessions, and embarking upon orientation trips. These experiences help students acclimate to the Princeton community, but after orientation programming, first-years are faced with an entirely new campus landscape: in their absence, nearly 4,000 sophomore, junior, and seniors have moved back onto campus. Many students find this new landscape overwhelming; yet for some, the transition seems less drastic, thanks to prior connections to upperclassmen, which often resulted from privileged upbringings. To provide a more even playing field for all students, the University should create opportunities for all first-year students to build comparable connections with upperclassmen.
Some first-years are fortunate enough to feel comfortable in this new environment full of intimidating, intelligent, well-adjusted students.Their teammates, family friends — who are often known through alumni connections —, or former classmates from elite private schools that send a disproportionate amount of graduates to Princeton are here to provide them a safe-haven in this new place. Students who are not fortunate enough to have access to these connections, or to gain admission to a highly selective club in the first few weeks of the semester, are left to figure out Princeton for themselves.
The University is significantly invested in helping freshman bond on their orientation trips. Outdoor Action leaders must complete five “full-day” training workshops, with eleven additional hours of training, along with two weeks of camping and preparation before the first-year class moves onto campus. This indicates their commitment to creating an intentionally supportive environment. Similarly, the university coordinates with community organizations and lodging retreats to perfect the Community Action experience. Both of these organizations and the dozens of other orientation activities succeed at making a class feel more like a community. The administration seems to be relatively successful in facilitating bonds between students of the same year: Why can’t they do this between freshman and upperclassmen?
There are numerous reasons why having connections with older students on campus is beneficial for first-years. Upperclassmen can provide advice on a variety of issues including classes, co-curriculars, and social life. Students who occupy roles specifically oriented to helping freshmen, such as Residential College Advisors and Peer Academic Advisors, are useful and necessary, but do not replace the role of a friend: someone you can connect with on a casual and personal level. Older students hold wisdom and knowledge which they impart onto younger friends. They know how to behave around which professors, which clubs to join and which are too time consuming, how to get into certain exclusive clubs and co-curricular activities. As a first-year, I can attest to our desperate need for advice on these fronts.
Additionally, upperclassmen can serve as a tie into Princeton nightlife, holding the keys to eating clubs in the form of passes. Nearly 50% of upperclassmen are members of a bicker club — which tend to require list spots or passes to attend parties — and an additional 26% are in non-bicker clubs. As the only formalized party space on-campus, these organizations are campus life powerhouses. Yet what happens in these clubs is much more than partying — it’s networking. While the University may be apprehensive to promote first-year access to drinking circles, it is undeniable that they do have an interest in helping all first-years access the opportunities pipeline that they can be so proud of post-graduation.
Seeing as the University puts so much time and effort into integrating first-years into social life and “promoting belonging,” it seems strange that there is no effort to help first-years — who are truly new to our campus community — engage in such a central part of social life. Our University is a powerhouse for networking and forging relationships that become beneficial later in life. Princeton alumni notoriously look out for each other. Even vaguely knowing alumni in a certain field or having a name you can drop when needed can be hugely beneficial for networking after graduation. Students who come to school with a more privileged background have an advantage in this regard. If Princeton truly wants to promote equity, they must give all underclassmen the opportunity to benefit from these opportunities.
Obviously the University cannot dictate who students befriend, interact with, or help out. However, based on the general successes of orientation, the University seems to be both fairly good at and committed to, such as putting first-year students in positions where they have an opportunity to connect with people who are like them and creating lasting friendships. This prowess should be applied to creating inter-grade friendships as well. The new policy regarding allowing students of all class years to live in residential colleges is an excellent opportunity for intergenerational friendships to form. Residential colleges frequently host events for students that involve giving away food or gear as incentives for participation. Community Living Advisors are responsible for creating these spaces for upperclassmen, while Residential College Advisors do so for first-years. Making these events open to all grades, instead of separated by freshman and upperclassmen, would provide an opportunity for younger students to familiarize themselves with the upperclassmen who they live with/around.
Yet casual mingling is not enough to form a community — something Princeton appears to know, based on its orientation practices. Holding structured introductory events within Residential Colleges, based around common interests or shared struggles, for inhabitants of all grades would facilitate better community within living spaces. This would create opportunities for new and current students to co-exist and get to know each other outside of the intensely competitive and intimidating club atmosphere. Giving students who did not enter Princeton as members of the “elite” the opportunity to interact with older students is a part of creating equality on our campus.
Being a new person in a new place comes with lots of social adjustment, and as newly-minted young adults, it is important for first-years to have to bear some responsibility in integrating themselves into the community and finding their place. However, in the name of equity, the university should make efforts to level the playing field, when some first-years clearly walk onto campus with a leg up.
Ava Johnson is a first-year columnist from Washington, D.C. She can be reached by email at aj9432@princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Every Princetonian knows that the first few weeks of first-year orientation are defined by two events: Core events and First Year Residential Experience (FYRE) events. Through a densely packed schedule of lectures, discussion series, and crash course seminars, these events are intended to rapidly acquaint first-year students with the culture and resources of Princeton’s residential communities.
Rather than building connections, the inflexible nature of Core and FYRE Events limits opportunities for frosh to build community organically. Princeton should embrace a more loosely regulated orientation programming structure to prioritize first-year engagement.
Orientation events are common requisites of the university experience. Columbia, for example, hosts New Student Orientation Program (NSOP) events during frosh orientation. First-Year Counselor Program (FroCo) Meetings are a nightly staple of Yale’s orientation programming. Yet, Princeton’s Core and FYRE Events are distinct in their quantity, style, and size, making it difficult for first-years to truly engage with their classmates.
One of the most glaring faults of Core and FYRE’s current program is the sheer quantity of scheduled events. Unlike universities like Harvard, which has four mandatory events over an eight-day period, there are well over thirty mandatory Core and FYRE Events in Princeton’s eleven day period. Over the course of the semester, the total sum of FYRE events surpasses forty, and on certain orientation days, there can be as many as five events per day.
At its peak, the overwhelming volume of these events nearly eliminates any downtime that frosh might have otherwise had on campus. Consequently, the lack of free time makes it difficult for first-years to explore campus or independently forge connections among their new peers.
The deeply structured style of Core and FYRE Events also prevents us from engaging with other frosh and the broader campus culture in more informal settings. Traditionally, these events tend to be structured in the style of lectures, where students listen to Princeton faculty and upperclassmen speak about their experiences instead of actively interacting with their peers.
Although students absorb factual information about campus culture, their learning experience is inherently limited by the lack of opportunities for student participation. Ironically, even as they learn about residential life with other first-years, they are unable to truly engage with those them. Arguably, Princeton’s small group experiences — Outdoor Action, Community Action, Dialogue and Difference in Action — do provide a window for more informal connection-building. However, as this only comprises three out of the total 11 days, these efforts are simply not enough.
If Princeton hopes to decrease the burden on the student body and provide opportunities for student-to-student engagement, it should reduce the intensity of event sessions. Consider Yale, for example. Orientation schedules at Yale bear several similarities to Princeton’s programming. For instance, Yale holds 25 mandatory events in an 11-day period whereas Princeton holds around 30 in the same interval. Yet Yale’s orientation schedule feels distinctly less exhaustive due how the University’s orientation programming is more effectively spread out.
Broken down, Yale’s mandatory programming averages out to three events per day, in comparison to Princeton’s average of four events. Furthermore, whereas most of Princeton’s events consist of hour-long lectures, Yale’s mandatory events include brief informal communication workshops and debrief-centered FroCo Meetings. Thus, in scheduling less intensive events, Yale effectively enables students to have more time to build stronger connections.
Furthermore, the present relationship between these orientation events and zee groups confines students to one prescribed group, instead of encouraging them to meet new people organically. Because zee groups are required to attend all Core and FYRE events together, and these events consume a significant amount of time, first-years spend an outsized amount of their time with a small, predetermined group. Because frosh are forced to spend long periods of time with their zee group, they are prevented from fully enjoying one of the greatest perks of college — engaging with the diversity of the college community. Plus, first-years who don’t feel close to their zee group may further face barriers in forming friendships because of how much of their time is spent exclusively with these groups.
There is a clear logic in establishing Core and FYRE as mandatory events. They orient first-years to critical resources and offerings at Princeton for student life, academics, and mental health. Still, even as Princeton seeks to facilitate the transition of its frosh to college life, it is equally important, if not more so, to build the community of each incoming class — at present, Core and FYRE Events directly inhibit this.
To address this issue, Princeton should restructure orientation programming to prioritize building frosh peer-to-peer engagement. In reducing the quantity of academic programming in favor of optional academic panels, Princeton could provide more time for first-years to socialize in organic settings. Additionally, by transitioning Princeton’s orientation programs from lecture-style to more loosely regulated social events, the University would be able to better facilitate more personal conversations, and by extension closer connections, among the frosh class. Finally, rather than mandating that students attend events solely with their zee group, Princeton should expand opportunities for students to engage with the student body more generally.
My personal favorite frosh orientation event, like many others’, was the Ice Cream Social. Why? Because the Ice Cream Social was the antithesis of Core and FYRE Events: optional, loosely regulated, and open to the entire class. In the spirit of the Ice Cream Social, the University should create more opportunities for first-years to connect with each other and relieve the burden of non-stop mandatory events.
Cathleen Balid is a first-year from Queens, N.Y. She can be reached at cb4649@princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.If you’ve read anything about activism at Princeton, you’ve probably heard the prevailing narrative that Princeton students are apathetic towards politics, with only a few committed students caring enough to speak up. This notion has become so accepted that it’s been expressed in this publication not only as opinion but even as news.
Until recently, I also believed this narrative.
But to current Princetonians and the incoming Class of 2029, I say: It’s not that we don’t care; rather, we feel we have no power to effect change. In short, our problem is defeatism, not apathy. And to fix it, we need your help.
Princeton students aren’t apathetic about politics. Nearly 95 percent of the Class of 2024 said they would vote in last year’s presidential election. Even when it comes to campus politics, the majority of Princeton students care: Last year’s campus elections saw a 53 percent student turnout.
So why do only tiny percentages of Princeton students show up to most protests? My colleague Frances Brogan offered some compelling explanations, but her argument that campus activism has become an identity and demands ideological purity doesn’t completely elucidate the way Princeton students approach activism.
A different reason for our absence is that Princeton students feel a collective sense of defeatism. Nearly every student I talk to is concerned about the Trump administration cutting funding and threatening international students. But almost everyone I asked about attending the April 5 protest against these threats expressed the same sentiment: It’s pointless to protest because protesting will never accomplish anything.
But this sentiment is flat-out wrong.
My appeals have thus far fallen on deaf ears among current Princeton students, and so I appeal to the Class of 2029 as well: When you arrive on campus, if you care about politics as so many Princeton students do, get involved in activism — because activism can work. And here’s how.
As students, we have access to three types of activism: moral action, mass action, and disruptive action. Past student movements have used these strategies to accomplish big things, on a national scale.
The first type of protest, moral action, is the kind intended to generate moral outrage amongst the public. Small groups of students have been able to accomplish this throughout history: The Black students who sat at a Greensboro lunch counter to protest racial segregation and refused to leave are an excellent example, as is Greta Thunberg’s school strike for climate. The goal of this kind of protest is to cause the public to wake up to a problem — and only works if you can publicize it.
The second type is mass nonviolent action, which intends to frighten leaders with the sheer number of people involved. That happened in 1976 in Soweto, South Africa, when 20,000 students protested against being taught in Afrikaans and rejuvenated the anti-apartheid movement in the country. It had already happened in the U.S. six years earlier, when four million students protested the Vietnam War.
And mass protest works. Harvard University professors Erica Chenoweth and Kenneth Wallach have shown that any movement that includes 3.5 percent of a population actively engaging in civil disobedience and protest is almost always successful in achieving its aims. To win, that can’t be in the form of one-off mobilization like a “national day of action,” but by persistent disobedience where large swaths of the population get involved and stay involved.
This is where college students have an advantage. We number 19 million across America, comprising well over five percent of the population. That’s why students have always been the catalysts for change. The structure for organizing mass nonviolent resistance — our campuses — is gifted to us, and the numbers are there. We should make use of our advantages to inspire national action.
But it’s at this point that modern student activists, myself included, have often gone wrong. The first thing we’ve gotten wrong is that we spend too much time mobilizing and not enough time organizing. The difference is simple: Mobilizing people is getting them to attend a protest. Organizing is bringing those people into the room to plan it. With more committed members in our activist organizations, we could accomplish bigger things and sustain a movement that encompasses the vast majority of students, rather than sparking their mobilization only in exceptional moments.
The other thing we’ve done wrong is that we don’t engage enough in the third type of protest, disruptive action. While disruptive action should be rare, disrupting normal proceedings is often the only way to force power holders to listen to your demands. It also often inspires others to join you.
But we hesitate to escalate to such significant disruption because of the elevated risk associated with it, even though effective disruption doesn’t always have to be outside the rules or the law. The efforts to disrupt the Naftali Bennett event on Monday are a recent example, and the large protest they inspired is an overdue reminder of the mobilizing power of good disruption.
Sunrise Princeton, the group I organize with, is building a coalition to demand that Princeton protects its people and research from the Trump administration. Others are working for justice in Palestine, workers’ rights, and more. To accomplish anything at all, though, we must have the people power to do it.
The defeatist mindset that saturates this campus is drowning our activism before it gets a chance to swim. But the Class of 2029 can help change that. If you were admitted to Princeton this year and believe, as many of us do, in the power of activism to effect social change, then you should choose Princeton so we can advance these goals together.
The only way we can defeat defeatism is with a strong conviction in our ability to win and a credible plan to do so. Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work, and with a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
Isaac Barsoum ’28 is a first-year intended Politics major from Charlotte, N.C., and a co-coordinator of Sunrise Princeton. He believes in the power of activism to effect positive change. His column, “A Princeton for All,” runs every other Thursday. You can read his column here. You can reach him at itbarsoum[at]princeton.edu.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.
I believe preservation of capital and significant liquidity should be Princeton’s guiding principle. Most importantly, there should be greater light shone on the endowment and how it is invested.As the new semester begins, TigerTransit, which connects University buildings, parking, and public transit, has implemented route and schedule changes that ensure more frequent and direct late-night service, more service on weekends, and better access for students living in residential colleges furthest from classrooms and athletic facilities.
TigerTransit’s design is meant to provide quick transportation between major locations with a walking distance of over 10 minutes, such as the commute from Forbes College to the E-Quad or Poe Field to Witherspoon. During the day on weekdays, four routes are in operation.
While locations remain similar to the 2023 routes, the updated Route 1 will make all-day stops at Friend Center on the way to Stadium Drive Garage, and Route 4 will connect the Meadows Neighborhood to Princeton Junction via Princeton Station. The Fisher Hall stop has also been moved closer to Washington Road.
Additional updates were also made to the night route, where one circulating bus has been replaced by two evening routes that now operate daily from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. The weekend routes, which transport students between housing complexes, campus destinations, and local shopping centers, will now have shopping stops “less than 3 minutes” from Wegmans, Whole Foods, and Trader Joe’s.
These changes are part of the annual updates that the University’s Transportation and Parking Services (TPS) implements before each academic year. Community members are able to give feedback on TigerTransit year-round through the “Tell us how TigerTransit is doing” page on the TPS website. This year, changes have been made based on feedback from over 300 survey responses from students, faculty and staff.
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ TPS wrote that “since 2022, TPS, Facilities, and other University partners have conducted campus-wide intercept surveys, including tabling during Frist late meal” and stopping people on campus.
The TPS website notes that “not every request or suggestion from the community could be accommodated in this year’s service plan,” and that the needs of the University community will continue to influence future improvements.
Since the current TigerTransit network launch about three weeks ago, TPS documents that services have seen about 3,500 boardings per day on weekdays and 1,100 boardings per day on weekends. During the first week of September, two of the routes that were updated were among those with the highest average daily boardings, with 1,118 riders on Route 4 and 885 riders on Route 1.
A complete guide to TigerTransit routes and updates can be found on the TPS website.
Michelle Miao is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.With 347 scheduled trips each weekday, the TigerTransit bus network serves as a critical transportation service for students, faculty, staff, and local residents across Princeton, West Windsor, and Plainsboro. TigerTransit’s stops include both campus buildings, like the Friend Center and Firestone Library, and local destinations, such as the Princeton Medical Center and Palmer Square. In some cases, it provides the only options for fixed-route public transportation to these destinations.
Yet with six lines, 27 destinations, and thousands of bus trips each week, many Princeton students — especially undergraduates — are unfamiliar with TigerTransit’s free-to-ride bus service.
“I think most students [know] it exists, but most are unaware of its scheduling and routes,” George Tidmore ’26 told The Daily Princetonian.
In light of the new restrictions on personal electric vehicles, TigerTransit serves as one of a diminished number of ways to get around campus. The ‘Prince’ broke down TigerTransit’s routes and schedules and identified key trips of interest to undergraduate students to enable them to get around campus quicker.
The TigerTransit service consists of six routes, five of which operate on weekdays. For the purposes of this analysis, we excluded the Weekend Shopper as it is heavily used by undergraduates relative to other routes and does not operate during the academic week.
Some students believe that TigerTransit’s route network does not serve undergraduate students well. “The system seems more oriented towards graduate student housing locations,” said Tidmore, a Forbes resident. Tidmore remarked that he had never used the TigerTransit system during his time at Princeton.
“The routes are sufficient [and] cover most parts of campus,” said Helena Ploss ’26. “I do wish they had one going through campus [up and down Elm Drive] that I would definitely take if I didn’t have a bike.”
“There are no plans for TigerTransit to operate on Elm Drive in the near future,” Director of Transportation and Parking Services Charles Tennyson told the ‘Prince,’ though he did mention that the University is taking steps to restrict construction vehicles operating on Elm Drive for the benefit of pedestrians and bikers.
TigerTransit is free at the point of use for all individuals. Riders must present a valid Princeton University ID to travel between Princeton Junction and campus on Route 4, but all other trips are free for use by the public.
Most TigerTransit service is geared towards moving graduate students, faculty, and staff from transportation hubs and parking facilities to campus.
“What’s difficult is that, given where most undergraduate students live, students would still need to travel to a pickup spot,” Tidmore said.
Tennyson responded to the lack of service to undergraduate dorms by stating that “there are many stops on most TigerTransit routes that are located less than five minutes walking from undergraduate residences and other popular destinations adjacent to Elm Drive.” We looked at three of these stops for our analysis.
Princeton Station: TigerTransit Routes 4, 5, and the Weekend Shopper stop outside Wawa in the Princeton Railroad Station bus loop. This stop is adjacent to Forbes College and is a short walk from the halls in the rear of Whitman College.
Admissions Information Center: Routes 1, 4, 5, and the Weekend Shopper stop outside the Admissions Information Center inside the U-Store in both north and south directions. This stop is convenient for students in Mathey or Rockefeller Colleges, as well as those living in Upperclass halls in the West Campus Area (Lockhart, Foulke, Laughlin, etc.)
Goheen Walk at Washington: All routes but the Weekend Shopper provide service at the intersection of Goheen Walk and Washington Road near Fine and McDonnell Halls, though Route 5 only provides service in the southbound direction, taking riders toward Yeh. This stop is especially close to Scully Hall but is convenient for all halls in the Poe Field area, including New College West, Butler, and Yeh Colleges.
We compared TigerTransit schedules to the walking times provided by Google Maps to see which trips are better accomplished by TigerTransit than walking alone. Our analysis is dependent on buses arriving according to their scheduled times, meaning that these trip times may not be completely accurate if buses are delayed.
To Friend Center and the E-Quad: When traveling from Forbes, the Rockefeller/Mathey area, or the Poe Field area (Butler/New College West/Yeh), TigerTransit is usually faster than walking, though this varies depending on the origin point.
From the Poe Field area, boarding Route 2 eastbound at Goheen Walk (Fine/McDonnell Halls) and taking it to the Friend Center stop is an 11-minute trip, four minutes faster than walking.
From the Mathey/Rockefeller area, boarding Route 1 eastbound at the U-Store and exiting at the Friend Center takes nine minutes, saving five minutes compared to walking. Note that only eight buses departing from the U-Store every 30 minutes between 7:22 a.m. and 10:52 a.m. deviate from the normal route along Washington Road to service the Friend Center and the E-Quad.
From Forbes College, boarding Route 4 northbound at Princeton Station and transferring to Route 1 eastbound at Firestone Library before getting off at the Friend Center yields a total travel time of 21 minutes, just a hair faster than the 22-minute walking time Google Maps estimates. Note that this itinerary depends upon the same eight eastbound Route 1 trips that deviate to the Friend Center and E-Quad, meaning that only eight Route 4 trips departing Princeton Station every 30 minutes from 7:11 to 10:41 a.m. make this connection possible.
“It was significantly faster than walking,” Dawood Virk ’25 said about using TigerTransit to get to the Friend Center from Forbes. “I believe after freshman year they changed the routes to no longer include a direct transport from [Princeton Station] to the Friend Center. They should definitely consider reinstating that route.”
Indeed, all TigerTransit routes once served the Friend Center, according to a 2021 route map obtained by the ‘Prince’ using the Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine. Today, just Routes 2, 5, and the Weekend Shopper serve the Friend Center, with eight Route 1 trips serving it and no service from Routes 3 or 4.
To Firestone Library: Forbesians can shave a minute off their travel time to Firestone by boarding Route 4 northbound at Princeton station and getting off at the Firestone Library stop on Nassau Street. This trip, which can also be used to reach upper campus destinations like East Pyne, takes 13 minutes. Note that return trips to Forbes require departing from Palmer Square or McCosh Walk.
To Scudder Plaza, JRR, and Robertson: Once again, Forbesians can make their trip across campus a tad faster by using TigerTransit. When traveling to the Scudder Plaza area — the intersection of McCosh Walk and Washington Road near Robertson, McCosh, and Wooten Halls — riders can board Route 4 northbound from Princeton Station and exit the bus at the McCosh Walk/Washington Road stop. This trip takes 14 minutes, again a minute faster than walking alone.
Mathey, Rockefeller, and west campus upperclass students can also use Route 4 or Route 1 from the U-Store to Scudder Plaza, but this trip does not save time compared to walking.
To Graduate College: Those on the west side of campus, including Mathey and Rockefeller Colleges, can travel to Graduate College and its far-flung dining hall by boarding TigerTransit’s Route 1 westbound at the U-Store and exiting at the last stop on the route, Graduate College. This trip takes nine minutes in total, saving four minutes compared to walking.
Those in the Poe Field area can also use Route 1 westbound from Goheen Walk (Fine/McDonnell Halls) to travel to Graduate College, but this trip takes as long or longer than walking.
To 185 Nassau Street: Downcampus residents can save time when traveling to 185 Nassau Street (the old LCA) and destinations on the east side of Nassau, including Hoagie Haven and Ficus, by using TigerTransit. Riders can board Route 2 eastbound from Goheen Walk (Fine/McDonnell Halls) and get off at Nassau/Charlton Streets. This trip takes eight minutes, almost half of the walking time.
To the Witherspoon/Jackson Neighborhood: The Witherspoon-Jackson neighborhood is known for its rich history and restaurant establishments like Local Greek. Located a half mile north of Nassau and even further from downcampus makes it a trek for students to reach, however. For downcampus residents, boarding Route 3 northbound at Goheen Walk and taking it to its terminus at Merwick takes 19 minutes, compared to 25 minutes of walking.
TigerTransit Routes 1, 2, 3, and 4 operate only on weekdays, while Route 5 operates on both weekends and weekdays. Routes 1 through 4 begin service at roughly at 7:00 a.m., with the last Route 1 and 2 buses departing their terminals between 8:30 and 9:00 p.m., while the final Route 3 and 4 buses depart their terminals between 6:00 and 6:40 p.m.
Buses on Routes 1 and 2 run every 10 to 15 minutes in each direction most of the day. In the evening, Route 1 and 2 are supplanted by Route 5, the evening circulator, which runs every 30 minutes between 7:00 p.m. and midnight on weekdays and between 5:00 p.m. and midnight on weekends.
Buses on Route 3 operate every 30 minutes during service hours. Route 4 buses operate every 30 minutes between 7:00 and 8:00 a.m., 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., and after 6:00 p.m., every 15 minutes between 8:00 and 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 and 6:00 p.m.
TigerTransit buses operate on regular intervals ranging between 10 and 30 minutes. We looked at departures from three stops close to residential buildings during peak morning hours to make recalling TigerTransit schedules easier.
From Princeton Station near Forbes, northbound Route 4 buses towards academic buildings depart at :11, :26, :41, and :56 on the hour. For example, buses depart Princeton Station at 9:11 a.m., 9:26 a.m., 9:41 a.m., and 9:56 a.m. during the morning rush.
From Goheen Walk near Fine and McDonnell Halls, eastbound Route 2 buses towards the Friend Center, E-Quad, and Fisher Hall depart at times ending in :8 from 8:00 a.m. to noon.
“Bus schedules don’t seem to align with class times,” said Ploss, “so if I want to get up Washington for a class at the top of the hill I’m better off walking [or] biking.”
Indeed, many TigerTransit schedules line up poorly with class times. For example, eastbound Route 1 buses arrive at Goheen Walk near McDonnell and Fine at :44 and :02 on the hour — either too early or too late to be useful for classes that start on the hour.
TigerTransit feeds data to the TripShot app to provide riders with live information about bus schedules, locations, and delays. It would appear that Transportation and Parking Services no longer provides TigerTransit updates over X (commonly known as Twitter), as the @PrincetonTPS account has been inactive since October 2022.
While TigerTransit primarily operates around the periphery of campus, it also extends into West Windsor and Plainsboro Townships. Route 4 extends to Princeton Junction, meaning that it can be used as a fare-free alternative to the Princeton Shuttle, commonly known as the Dinky. The ticket price from New York Penn Station to Princeton Station is $17.75, but the price to Princeton Junction is $16.00. Using TigerTransit instead of the Dinky means that travelers can save $3.50 on a round trip to New York or Newark Liberty International Airport.
We used our previous data on the travel times between New York and Princeton and examined how using TigerTransit instead of the Dinky would affect travel times. On average, return trips from New York Penn Station to Princeton Station are lengthened by eight minutes when using Route 4 versus the Dinky. However, Route 4 extends past Princeton Station, providing direct service from Princeton Junction to the U-Store, Firestone Library, and Washington Road, meaning travelers may save time using Route 4 overall by shaving off walking time from Princeton Station.
TigerTransit does not provide direct service to athletic facilities like Jadwin Gym or Princeton Stadium. However, all routes stop at Goheen Walk, which is a six-minute walk from Jadwin, and Routes 1 and 4 service Stadium Drive Garage, which is a four-minute walk from Jadwin. TigerTransit may be used as a means to reach these destinations, which is especially notable in light of the University’s recent strengthened regulations on the use of e-scooters and e-bikes, which are frequently used by athletes to get across campus to Jadwin.
We examined the travel times from the Rockefeller/Mathey area, Forbes, and Palmer Square to destinations like Jadwin Gym and the Shea Rowing Center. Our analysis found that using TigerTransit offered no significant time savings compared to walking due to the relative distance of TigerTransit stops from athletic facilities and the convoluted route buses take around campus.
According to Tennyson, TigerTransit’s bus fleet will be all-electric by the end of 2023. He also noted that the buses whisk between 1,500 and 2,000 students, faculty, campus employees, and community members around the Princeton area every weekday.
By combing through its schedules, TigerTransit’s utility to undergraduate students can be revealed as a frequent shuttle around the periphery of campus.
Ryan Konarska is an associate Data editor and a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached at ryankonarska[at]princeton.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Princeton has historically been a walking campus — students can make the longest trek on campus, from Forbes College to the E-Quad, in about 25 minutes.
Transportation transformation, however, may be on Princeton’s horizon.
Simultaneously, students have become more spread out on campus, with more students living in the far south of campus due to the opening of two new residential colleges in 2022, Yeh and New College West. In August, the University announced a ban on personal electric vehicles (PEVs), prohibiting electric scooters, bikes, hoverboards, and skateboards from being used within a designated zone during “peak hours” of 7:30 a.m. through 4 p.m. on weekdays.
As students grapple with transportation options, transit patterns have been changing for some time. Ridership on TigerTransit, the University’s free bus service, has increased by 60 percent from pre-pandemic levels and by over 50 percent from 2022, according to Director of Transportation and Parking Services Charles Tennyson. The growing interest in the transit service comes as TigerTransit brings 17 new battery electric buses to replace its former diesel fleet.
“We suspect that a combination of increased frequency, greater visibility and access, and reliability of bus service is likely driving the ridership increases,” Tennyson wrote in a statement to The Daily Princetonian. For example, the Goheen Walk Northbound stop on Washington Road, which is served by four TigerTransit routes, has jumped from being the 12th most used weekday stop to the fifth busiest. From here, riders can hop on any northbound bus to avoid walking up a steep path.
Tennyson also added that undergraduate transit use from residents at Butler, Yeh, and New College West could be contributing to the increase of rides.
TigerTransit runs six lines around campus and nearby towns. Two routes serve the graduate student residents of the Lakeside Apartments and the Graduate College, respectively, while the Weekend Shopper provides access to groceries and retail shopping on Route 1. Another route runs to Princeton Medical Center, the Forrestal Campus, and the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL).
However, TigerTransit has also been criticized for its limited utility, as its route network operates around the periphery of campus and mostly transports graduate students, faculty, and staff from parking facilities to campus. In September, Tennyson told the ‘Prince,’ “There are no plans for TigerTransit to operate on Elm Drive in the near future.”
TigerTransit previously operated using a fleet of 14 full-size diesel buses and five smaller buses. By implementing the electric buses, 500 metric tons of tailpipe emissions will be removed from the atmosphere annually.
“Our air is cleaner because of this project,” said University President Christopher Eisgruber ’83 in an event inaugurating the new buses. However, 500 metric tons represent less than one percent of the carbon emitted by campus operations annually, according to Tennyson.
The all-electric fleet is also relatively unique for a public transit system. According to a University press release, Princeton is the first Ivy League school with exclusively emissions-free vehicles. In the same press release, Tennyson said that the University’s charging station was “one of the largest electric transit vehicle charging facilities in the country.”
According to Tennyson, there are plans to change TigerTransit routes and service patterns to accommodate the new Meadows Neighborhood development across Lake Carnegie in West Windsor Township, which is planned for completion in Spring 2024. These service changes will be announced in early January.
Recent and future changes to the TigerTransit system are part of a broader landscape of environmental efforts on campus — as geothermal energy construction projects are ongoing and the University works towards a goal of carbon neutrality by 2046 — as well as significant campus expansion. Against the backdrop of a rapidly changing campus, students can expect that transportation patterns may also experience shifts away from walking and scootering and towards alternative modes of movement.
TigerTransit users can share feedback on the service with the University through its “Tell us how TigerTransit is doing” feedback form.
Ryan Konarska is an associate Data editor and staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Louisa Gheorghita is a staff News writer and photographer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.
Last month, Princeton University announced a restriction on Personal Electric Vehicles (PEVs) during “peak hours,” defined as 7:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., throughout most of campus. However, this de facto “scooter ban” has been ignored by many and, walking around campus, it is apparent that scooter use is still rampant. While the University has restricted scooter use, it has yet to update the campus transport system that could serve as an alternative: TigerTransit. A Daily Princetonian analysis aptly described the University’s bus system as a “shuttle around the periphery of campus.” But the center of campus, not the periphery, is where students need to travel the most.
Campus has grown and significant portions of the undergraduate student body live far south of where most academic buildings are located. “Space” around campus has changed, and connections between these spaces are not pedestrian-friendly, especially with construction detours and paths. While the University has launched the new Princeton Campus Map app to provide directions, taking into account construction detours and other path changes, this app only provides directions; it cannot magically change the campus landscape to speed up student commutes.
In order to truly speed up student travel, the University should invest in the TigerTransit system to include destinations where all undergraduate students need to go. The current routes do not serve the daily needs of the undergraduate population. For example, the only current TigerTransit route that has a dedicated residential college stop is Route 5, which stops at Yeh College. Even then, Route 5 only operates in the evening.
TigerTransit does not currently provide service where and when undergrads need it most: the morning and evening rush times. The morning “rush” on campus in the minutes leading up to 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. lectures makes Elm Drive crowded with students rushing to class, some walking and many still scootering — despite the official restriction. To alleviate this problem, the University should run a TigerTransit bus route along Elm Drive in a continual loop, starting near Bloomberg Arch, picking up students from Whitman, New College West, Yeh, and Butler, and then shuttling them up campus to East Pyne and McCosh Hall. Even if this route saves just a few minutes for students, TigerTransit can become a resource that students can use, meeting them where they are and not being an out-of-the-way burden. This Elm Drive loop would also decrease the current prohibited scooter use as a quick and convenient bus service would provide an alternative method of transportation for students rushing to class.
TigerTransit also fails to address transport needs during the evening “rush” at the end of classes. This transfer is crucial for athletes, who, according to the 2023 Senior Survey, make up 88 percent of scooter users. Since afternoon classes end at 4:20 p.m. every day, many athletes struggle to be on time for their 4:30 p.m. practice. While 4:20 p.m. is after the scooter ban’s end at 4 p.m., athletes would not have the time to return to their dorms to pick-up their scooters; instead, many scooter to their class, before the ban’s expiration, to ensure a quick transit. It is nearly impossible to reach certain athletic facilities in time from the academic center of campus by walking, which necessitates scooters for transport. One men’s soccer team member told me that he “was only able to make [his] practice on time because of [his] scooter.” Additionally, a member of the men’s water polo team shared that many players who have a semi-torn labrum, a common hip injury, rely on their scooters to get to practice quickly.
A bus service linking the academic center of campus, like the intersection of Washington Road and McCosh Walk, directly with athletic facilities would alleviate this burden. As of now, TigerTransit offers no direct connection to athletic facilities. In addition, according to a ‘Prince’ analysis, TigerTransit’s current routers offer “travel times that are the same or longer than walking times to athletic facilities down campus.” A different dedicated route could help solve this problem.
TigerTransit expansion, however, has benefits for the entire undergraduate student body, not just athletes. The Elm Drive shuttle, for example, would become a vital connection throughout campus for students traveling to residential colleges, classes, or facilities like Dillon Gym. The creation of new shuttles is also much-needed because PEV safety is an issue; the University shared with the ‘Prince’ that there were 54 safety incidents involving PEVs in the 2022-23 academic year — and those were just the reported incidents.
However, TigerTransit expansion shouldn’t be the only change made to campus; it should be the first of many changes. A pedestrian-friendly, convenient, and accessible campus also requires the implementation of protected bike and scooter lanes separate from pedestrian traffic, as is currently being adopted in cities across the world en masse, including a significant program in New York City. Even while the University is making massive investments in construction, when asked about specific PEV and pedestrian safety plans, a spokesperson commented, “as a part of the campus plan, infrastructure to best support pedestrian and wheeled mobility on campus will be modernized to improve the overall experience for all mobility types.” They shared no specific plans to implement safe corridors for bikes and scooters.
So far, the University has failed to provide an adequate replacement to PEVs to address the transport needs of a growing campus. The “scooter ban” isn’t working because Princeton’s geography requires a fast way to travel around campus. The University’s choice to prohibit scooter use during their most needed hours necessitates a feasible alternative. If it were convenient and accessible for undergraduates, TigerTransit could serve as that transportation option. Thus, Princeton must expand the TigerTransit system where undergrads need it the most: between residential colleges and academic buildings with a central Elm Drive shuttle, as well as between more class locations and athletic practice facilities.
Preston Ferraiuolo is a sophomore from Brooklyn, N.Y., intending to major in the School of Public and International Affairs. He can be reached at prestonf@princeton.edu.The following content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
In the past month, the University introduced a new fleet of 17 electric TigerTransit buses as ridership has increased in the face of recent campus-wide ban on Personal Electric Vehicles (PEVs).
A Daily PrintsAnything investigation has found that these new buses are entirely powered by rats native to the Princeton area.  The Diesel Fleet section of the TigerTransit website writes, “Sustainable rat-powered energy is how we plan to do our part to end the climate crisis.”
“When I first saw the union contract, I thought we were being hired as electrical engineers,” said Angelica Crumbstop, one of the rats currently employed by the University.
According to the job listing on Indeed, the actual job title is “Electric Engine.” The job description reads, “We are seeking warm bodies to serve as full-time electric engines. Applicants should have the ability to create substantial friction by rubbing their body against others. Little to no predisposition to vertigo is a plus.”
A number of rats have expressed confusion and anguish at their job responsibilities. “You do understand that the only reason you have this technology is because they tricked a bunch of highly-trained electrical engineers to get inside a bus engine, right?” asked Harrison Nightingale, Ph.D., a prominent rat within the union. “You call this the American dream?! This is not why my grandparents emigrated to America in the galleys of a white-people ship.”
“While I’m grateful to finally get off unemployment, these conditions are pretty shocking,” said Larry Siu, a veteran rat on campus, as he took a long drag from a miniature Virginia Slim. “We’re being thrown around in there like a Wawa hoagie in a washing machine."
According to Dr. Nightingale, the union plans to go on strike for better conditions and benefits, such as dental insurance and weekly cremations for all those perishing on the job.
Unfortunately, this strike will not be implemented in the foreseeable future, for an unknown union member has reportedly spent the entirety of the strike fund on pay-per-view chinchilla porn.
“You have no idea how good you have it,” said Claudio Mueringa, a disturbingly disfigured mouse, as he quickly scampered out of the basement of the Princeton Neuroscience Institute. “Please tell my family I love them,” he yelled as an indignant graduate student dragged his near-lifeless body by the tail back into the building.
Sophia Varughese ’26 is an associate humor editor. She’d take ‘over’ on “over/under 3 rats Sophia’s made out with”. She can be reached at sv1456@princeton.edu.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.The following content is purely satirical and entirely fictional.
It’s February and love is in the air, but unfortunately, as we all know, Princeton students have a tendency to stay holed up in their rooms studying. Luckily, for those who might be craving a chance to dance with romance, one student’s brilliant new app has the solution.
Introducing TigerTease, the only application that alerts you when that zee group baddie’s high school relationship has broken up. To learn more about the app’s features, we spoke with Deepa Insaichu, a senior in the Computer Science Department and member of the Residential College Advising program at Rockefeller College.
“Maybe you went home and found out that the ‘I go to Princeton’ card made you more of a ‘hell-no’ than the town’s hottest new gigolo. Maybe a certain someone went home and found out that their partner just didn’t suit their future in investment banking. Maybe you’ve had eyes on the one with long, luscious locks, fair skin, eyes shining beautifully like the sparkling sea … Either way, this is the app for you,” explained Insaichu.
TigerTease lets users search for potential partners, sorting through zee groups by residential college, gender, sexuality, and current relationship status. Once they find that special someone, users then have several options. If the candidate is currently in a relationship, users have the option to receive notifications if their relationship status changes.
If the candidate is single, users can instead opt to message via Instagram, email, or carrier pigeon. Premium subscribers can even request to have gifts delivered, including bouquets, chocolates, and Frist late meal sushi.
Several new features will also roll out in the coming weeks. As Insaichu explained, “New relationship status options will soon be available. One that I am particularly excited about is the ‘Rough Patch’ status. This will allow users to slide in at just the right time to show their crushes how they could really be treated right. Relationship statuses will be automatically monitored and updated in real-time as information becomes available.”
When asked how this data collection method worked, Insaichu declined to comment. Throughout the interview, their phone kept buzzing with Instagram notifications.
An independent investigation by The Daily PrintsAnything concluded that this feature is driven by Insaichu’s Instagram page, which follows every campus baddie the investigations team could account for.
The Daily PrintsAnything also got an exclusive hands-on demonstration of a new AI feature coming to the app. Users can practice “rizzing up shawties” as the feature description reads by placing themselves in practice conversations with a specially trained chatbot.
In the scenario we were shown, we were tasked with consoling a student who recently broke up with their partner of four years. Throughout the conversation, we were automatically prompted by certain lines at key points, such as “Where my hug at” upon initiating the conversation, and “I would never treat you that way” when listening about their old partner.
Insaichu will distribute the app to fellow RCAs for use in their zee groups, though all students may register for the app on both Apple and Android, with a full release planned this Friday.
Sawyer Dilks is a staff Humor writer and member of the Class of 2027. If there are any students going through a rough breakup and need someone to listen, he would like to remind them that there are resources available at sd5123[at]princeton.edu.
“I find it hard to make decisions too,” Arthur Patterson ’27 said. “What if I say I want to study at Firestone, but all my friends secretly wanted to study in Frist and didn’t tell me as a test. Now they all hate me. This has happened before. With three different friend groups.”

We have the chance to create a valuable partnership with the powers that be and avoid the fate of some of our more naïve friends across the Ivy League. Nevertheless, it will require us to do more than just remove the DEI from our motto “Dei sub numine viget”. Using the following steps below, we can ensure Old Nassau lives as long as those 300 year old geezers who are still collecting Social Security checks.
During this harrowing week, one group of students that find themselves lacking excitement: humanities majors. To combat this discrepancy, the University has introduced a new club called FUNdamentals, the purpose of which is to host activities for humanities majors wanting to feel included in the hustle and bustle of midterms.As students returned to campus after winter break, many in undergraduate housing were met with unwelcome guests: rats and mice. Reports of infestations spread quickly, with students spotting rodents in dorm rooms, hallways, and common rooms.
Rodents have been a documented issue in upperclass housing for years, notably in buildings such as Brown Hall. However, multiple first-year students from both New College West (NCW) and Yeh College told The Daily Princetonian that they have seen rodents in their common rooms since before fall break, and the infestation issue has only gotten worse.
Yeh resident John Wallar ’25 told the ‘Prince’ that he returned to his dorm during Wintersession to find that he had a mouse under his bedside table. “I heard a little scurrying, and I was like, okay, something probably just shifted,” said Wallar. “And then it continued.”
After contacting the Public Safety (PSAFE) non-emergency number, Wallar was offered a bed in the infirmary or the option to stay in a friend’s room. “The next day, someone from Facilities … came and put two mouse traps,” said Wallar. “Since then, I’ve had no other encounters with the small furry critter.”
Another resident of Yeh College, Kai Harting ’28, informed the ‘Prince’ that there have been reports of mice on his floor since December. Once, Harting’s zee group resorted to catching a mouse by themselves in a cup before releasing it outside.
Lizzie Himmelfarb ’28, who is in the same zee group as Harting, said this mouse was one of two mice spotted in her room and one of many on her floor.
Facilities have since been contacted about the problem on Harting and Himmelfarb’s floor in Yeh. Complaints from other students have continued to emerge.
“It took a while for Facilities to bring traps,” said Olivia Perry ’28, who also lives in New College West. Perry continued that Facilities found “four baby mice who lived in my mattress topper over break … it’s basically like seven mice died in our room.”
In an email to the ‘Prince,’ University spokesperson Ahmad Rizvi said, “It is normal to see an uptick in mice activity during colder months as they seek warmth.”
“It is also common to see an increase in such activity after a period of extended vacancy,” added Rizvi.
Undergraduates like Wallar and Danny Gall ’28 reported calling the non-urgent PSAFE line or Facilities to reach out to the University for help in exterminating the pests in their rooms.
Rizvi told the ‘Prince’ that to keep buildings pest-free, “weekly exclusion work is also being performed. This work includes sealing up potential entry points around a building like cracks, gaps and holes to prevent pests from entering” in addition to regular maintenance.
Facilities, in partnership with Western Pest, keeps two technicians on campus Monday through Friday to handle routine work and respond to service calls. Facilities recommends a “clean environment with no food left out. Food should be stored in glass or hard plastic containers and trash should be regularly emptied.” Students can contact the Facilities Service Center at service@princeton.edu or 609-258-8000 if they encounter any pests.
Hallie Graham is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince’ from Portland, Tenn. She typically covers construction and architecture, facilities and housing, and University dining.
Ben Goldston is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.It’s no secret that Frist Campus Center’s late meal is a valued addition to undergraduate student dining plans. Following recent increases in hours and allowance, students can now spend up to $10.25 per meal on a variety of grab-and-go lunch and dinner options. This allows students to eat on the move and outside of dining hall hours, which is very convenient for students with busy schedules. Students are presented with a plethora of options for lunch and dinner — from a grill to a panini bar to an Asian food station — which enhances the system’s popularity. In fact, with the change in food options this fall semester, Frist late meals have become such a popular choice among students that many have noted how crowded Frist often becomes.
As construction has accelerated, the University has unofficially put forward Frist as a supplementary dining hall and convenient on-the-go location for the student body. However, some students — including myself — have noticed that the changes in range of dining choices are not all positive. With changes over the summer such as the elimination of the salad bar and burrito bowl station, the new late meal options have become markedly more restrictive for vegan and vegetarian students.
In a 2021 student blog post, a senior described Princeton dining as “very accommodating” to vegan preferences. However, the University has a fundamental responsibility to provide more options — especially as the number of vegetarian and vegan students might continue to expand in the future. After all, vegans and vegetarians make up a sizable chunk of the student population, with eight percent of the Class of 2027 identifying as vegan or vegetarian. Beyond Princeton, 1.5 billion members of the global population do not or cannot eat meat. In particular, college students are far more likely to follow a vegetarian or vegan diet compared to the average citizen. As a result, it is vital to provide fulfilling and nutritionally balanced vegetarian and vegan options for students, with a wide variety of proteins, carbohydrates, vegetables, and fruits. The offering of such options would also improve the inclusivity of our dining spaces for students with dietary restrictions or intolerances.
At present, the number of viable vegetarian and vegan options provided by late meal is quite limited. In order to investigate, I went to Frist at around 2:30 p.m. on Monday to check out the variety of the dining options firsthand. At the panini station, although there were two meat options (in the form of roast beef and chicken sandwiches), there were no plant-based options displayed for students. Similarly, although the pasta station offered chicken additions, no forms of plant-based proteins were available for students to order, meaning vegetarians and vegans who want pasta may have to sacrifice the nutritional value of their meal. There were only a couple of vegan snack options at the “Grab and Go” section, such as Ticos smoothies, cups of vegetables, hummus, and sushi rolls — though very few of these options actually contain protein. Additionally, if a student were to get multiple snacks, they might easily exceed the allotted $10.25 allowance — meaning they would have to pay the rest with their own money. Finally, at the grill, they provide only one vegan option and two vegetarian options.
Overall, by my count, the Monday late meal only offered four hot meal options for vegans — and of the four, only three contained a form of protein. The grill station offered two additional vegetarian meals, both of which met nutritional requirements and included plenty of protein and carbohydrates. However, these options contained milk, and consequently were not friendly to vegans nor to students with lactose intolerances. Although there were some alternatives directed at vegans and vegetarians, these offerings were severely lacking when compared to the range of possibilities for other students, who are able to choose from eight grill options, three salad bar proteins, two Asian bar proteins, two pasta bar options, two panini options, and dozens of Grab and Go options. If students have additional dietary restrictions beyond being vegetarian or vegan, their options are only further limited.
Late meal could easily incorporate more nutritious, vegetarian- and vegan-friendly changes to ensure that plant-based and dietary options are always available to the student body. For example, a vegetarian entrée in the panini section or more high-protein meals in the Grab and Go section — such as a chickpea salad or protein shakes — would provide a more diverse range of suitable foods. Potential meat alternatives, such as tofu, seitan, and “beyond” options should be explored for the pasta bar. In terms of more long-term changes, consider the restoration of the salad bar, which previously provided students with protein-dense options up until last year. The implementation of such options could easily improve accessibility for students with dietary restrictions.
The current options are insufficient for vegetarian and vegan students. College students are recommended to eat a range of proteins, carbohydrates and fruits every day. Thus, campus dining should provide a wide variety of such options. It’s not fair that Frist dining options are so disproportionately restricted. In order to close this gap, Frist late meal needs to offer more options for vegetarian and vegan students. For particularly busy students or those with back-to-back afternoon classes, Frist is often the only lunch option, and it can quickly become busy as options start to run out, making it even more difficult for vegetarian and vegan students to properly fuel themselves. Students deserve adequate dining options, first and foremost.
Liz Reyes is a second-year contributing columnist planning to major in Neuroscience. She is from Cherry Hill, N.J. and can be reached at lr9325[at]princeton.edu.
Class of 2029, I ask you to come to campus with the conviction that activism can work and a willingness to participate. Those of us who are already here will have the plan.
The work of fostering a pluralistic academic environment is not just about allowing speech — it’s about listening and responding to its impact with care and integrity.
Our Opinion writers reflect on their own Princeton experience, considering what they would have done differently and offering advice for incoming Princetonians.Over the summer, several changes were made to Princeton Late Meal, some reflecting national Consumer Price Index (CPI) trends, while others have come as a result of community feedback and University data.
These changes follow a tradition of modifications to late meal at the start of each academic year, which typically include late meal allowance and price increases, as well as other adjustments depending on ongoing campus events.
In Fall 2023, this included a change to late lunch hours, now 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. instead of the previous 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., as a result of the closure of Butler’s dining hall. This expansion of hours was made “to accommodate meal plan participating students with a location closer in proximity to classes during closure of this dining hall,” wrote University Spokesperson Jennifer Morrill in an email to The Daily Princetonian.
This year, Campus Dining has implemented a number of new changes relevant to pricing, sustainability, and food options available at late meal, while also making several adjustments to increase efficiency and convenience for customers.
The late meal allowance for students on the meal plan has increased from $9.50 last year, to $10.25 this year, an increase of 7.8 percent. Morrill wrote that this price increase occurred to “better reflect current market rates for meals,” and conceded that the “adjustments have been made reactively rather than proactively.”
According to Morrill, the average retail price in the Frist Gallery increased by 8.0 percentage points, which she wrote “is in line with retail industry data.” According to the Consumer Price Index for New York-Newark-Jersey City of August 2024, food away from home increased by an average of 3.2 percent.
Oleksandr Mykhantso ’27 said in an interview with the ‘Prince’ that “in general, I feel like this increase by [about] a dollar is kind of nice.”
Olena Kovalenko ’27 expressed some confusion over the new charges, explaining that although sometimes her meal choice exceeded the late meal allowance, she was not charged for the additional costs.
Morrill explained that the Gallery’s “primary goal is to breakeven and keep the pricing in check; in order to manage the impact of rising food, beverage, labor, sustainability commitment and other commodity costs on our operations.”
Some students noticed an increase in sustainability efforts from last year. Amogh Joshi ’27 noted that there were “more compost bins,” giving students a better opportunity to “be sustainable, be green.”
Campus Dining has collaborated with the Office of Sustainability to increase and update signage in the Gallery, and have additionally installed two compost compactors to the waste area. “We have certainly made efforts to reduce waste and raise awareness through operational efficiencies, education, and messaging,” Morrill wrote.
This is in line with the sustainability mission of Campus Dining to “consider the broader context of social and environmental issues surrounding food production, distribution, and preparation.”
An audit of Frist Gallery and Shultz Cafe in April 2023 found that over 60 percent of items going to landfill had the potential to be diverted to composting in the two retail dining locations. As a result, most packaging products in Frist Gallery were transitioned to compostable alternatives, and collection containers were installed in the area.
A number of new food options have become available at Late Meal as a result of community feedback. This year, a new sushi provider “has expanded the options” while students have praised the new selections of paninis and the increased variety of food available to them.
In an interview with the ‘Prince,’ Advik Eswaran ’27 said, “the paninis are gas.”
“I like the new varieties of things that they have to offer,” Joshi added.
A welcome message to the Class of 2028 from Campus Dining featured the “new crispy chicken sandwich … featuring a buttermilk-pickle batter and fried to perfection, along with expanded options at each station within the Food Gallery at Frist.”
Morrill wrote that Kosher grab-and-go items have also been added to the Gallery “due to renovations at the Center for Jewish Life.”
Frist is also home to Witherspoon Cafe, where smoothies, nitro cold brew coffee, and convenience store items have been added over the summer.
The late meal community is encouraged to leave feedback on late meal, with a bulletin board asking for suggestions located in the Frist Gallery area. While most of the notes ask for various food options including grilled cheese, dumplings, and burritos, other notes thank the late meal staff for their work.
Students have also commented on an increase in food quality in the Gallery; Joshi noted that one of the biggest changes from last year is that “the food quality has improved significantly.”
According to Morrill, Campus Dining teams across campus “are working diligently to reduce ultra-processed foods and introduce more seasonal, local ingredients.” The sustainability commitment of Campus Dining echoes this sentiment, explaining, “We make it a priority to purchase local and sustainably-produced food.”
Morrill also commented on a number of ease-of-use changes that have been implemented over the last year.
The grill has undergone some logistical modifications, with the pick-up number of the meal being changed from the last three digits of a seven digit number, to now being the order number of the receipt. This change was made “to make it easier for customer pick up to only have one number set in play instead of multiple,” according to Morrill.
Additionally, the order-ahead app was introduced in Fall 2023, allowing customers to place grill orders before reaching the gallery. Now, approximately 60 percent of grill customers use the app to order their meals, although late meal often remains crowded during peak lunch hours.
Mykhantso explained “I feel like it’s an even split” between mobile and in-person orders. He added “even right now, you can see so many people standing in line … because [for] a lot of things you also can’t online order.”
Morrill wrote that, due to the positive response of the order-ahead app with the grill options, Campus Dining has “expanded the service by adding Witherspoon’s menu, offering even more convenience and options” to customers.
Late Meal is open for the 2024–25 academic year from 11 a.m. – 4 p.m. for late lunch, Monday through Friday, and 8:30 p.m. – 10 p.m. for late dinner Monday through Thursday.
Victoria Davies is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince’ who covers University Operations.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.At The Prospect, writers often review one of the many restaurants in town, from those that students frequent to some of the restaurants farther out. But we've overlooked late meal on campus, which remains one of the most popular options for students.
Some pick up a quick snack, like a Tico’s smoothie, while others order a more substantial meal, such as a burger. The variety offered at late meal is reliable in availability and consistent in quality. Though I have not tried everything served throughout late lunch and late dinner, I have tasted enough of it that I can recommend my top three choices, in no particular order, for anyone who still has yet to try Frist Campus Center’s late meal. These will remain as my go-to late meal choices, despite the fact that I'll have to pay for them as an upperclass student next school year.
When I started frequenting Frist for late lunch this semester, the burrito bowl immediately became a staple in my repertoire of meal choices. My go-to order consists of a base of yellow rice and either chicken or chorizo (occasionally carne asada if available), with pico de gallo, guacamole, cilantro cream, and shredded cheese as toppings.
The first bite of the burrito bowl yields an explosion of flavors that satisfies my taste buds. The meat, whether it is the stringy chicken, spicy chorizo, or chewy carne asada, is extremely savory. The pico de gallo provides a bit of a kick and a tint of freshness. The scoop of guacamole and dash of cilantro cream sauce give the bowl enough condiments to complement the rest of the ingredients very nicely without making it soggy.
Each scoop of meat, rice, and the messy mixture of the salsa, guacamole, and cilantro cream fills me with a myriad of motley flavors and textures, ultimately comprising a well-balanced, satiating meal. The decent proportion of ingredients given in the bowl make for it to be an optimal serving for lunch that isn’t so filling so as to make you overly drowsy for your afternoon classes.
Usually, I get the signature-blend cheeseburger combo from the Grill Station, especially on days when I am craving something more greasy and sizable. However, the quesadilla is certainly a top contender for best item from the grill. It is not as oily or indulgent as some of the other items offered on the Grill Station’s menu, but its enjoyability is still comparable.
When ordering, I alternate between chicken and steak as my choice of protein for the filling. The portion, I would say, does seem a bit smaller than what I would have usually expected in such a dish. However, the taste of it more than makes up for the quesadilla’s size. The chunks of meat strung up with the melted shredded cheese pair well with the firm, warm tortilla to provide the perfect bite. The delectable conglomeration of the savoriness of the meat and sharpness of the cheese, all encased in a lightly-crisped tortilla, is satisfying during a late-night study session.
I highly suggest having the quesadilla with guacamole and/or sour cream, as they pair well with the heartiness of the compressed meat and cheese inside the tortilla and augment their combined flavors.
Many students enjoy late meal because of the grab-and-go nature of many of the items offered at the various stations in the Frist Food Gallery. Yet, I believe that the pasta, cooked on the spot at the Pizza Station, is a dish that is worth waiting for. After choosing a base sauce for the pasta to be cooked in, I usually only need to wait under five minutes before the made-to-order pasta is finished. A tray of seasonings from which students add some spices or other condiments to their pasta is also provided.
My usual order is either wide rigatoni in vodka sauce or wide fettuccine in bolognese sauce, topped off with a generous amount of olive oil, pepper, parmesan cheese, and pepper flakes. All pasta orders come with a slice of garlic bread. Whether the pasta is cooked in vodka or bolognese sauce, the pasta is consistently al dente. Each individual pasta is lathered in the chosen sauce, helping balance each bite between the chewy grain of the pasta and the mildly-flavorful sauce. The seasonings enhance the savoriness of the sauce-covered pasta by contributing notes of spice and richness. The warm garlic bread goes nicely with the dish and is perfect for dipping into the leftover sauce at the bottom of the bowl.
This is certainly a comforting, hearty meal that warrants a nap right afterwards.
Russell Fan is an assistant editor for The Prospect at the ‘Prince.’ He can be reached at rf4125@princeton.edu, or on Instagram @russell__fan.
With spring here, Marley Hartnett-Cody, a contributing writer for The Prospect, explores the campus’s best outdoor study spots.
Associate Editor for The Prospect Gavin McLoughlin and Staff Writer for The Prospect Annika Plunkett take us inside the hidden basement bakery fueling Princeton’s dining halls with over 6,000 desserts a day.
Staff Writer for The Prospect Amanda Hugas analyzes campus fashion through the lens of backpacks, bags, and totes.Princeton Campus Dining has extended late meal hours to include standard lunch times, raised the late meal allowance, and begun piloting a new mobile ordering system.
The extended lunch hours, which span 11 a.m. to 4p.m. on weekdays, differs by three hours from the 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. schedule used in the 2022–2023 school year. Late dinner hours of 8:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. have not changed.
Campus Dining originally introduced late meal as an initiative to provide underclassman students with additional dining opportunities beyond normal times.
According to the Campus Dining website, the office recognizes that “students may be unable to dine during regular dining hall hours. Therefore, students with meal plans are entitled to use their plan to purchase late lunches Monday to Friday and late dinner Monday to Thursday at the Food Gallery at Frist.”
Now, however, late meal hours overlap with lunch hours, meaning that students may eat lunch in the Frist Gallery instead of one of the four dining halls associated with the residential colleges. The implications of this change could lead to a reduction in dining hall crowds at lunch.
Will Zhou ’26 often chooses late meal over residential college dining options due to advantages that late meal provides, such as its central location and grab-and-go options.
“I welcome the change for sure,” he said in an interview with the ‘Prince.’ “Especially for lunch, you can come to Frist and leave quickly, which is quite convenient.”
Isabel Liu ’26 also expressed her preference for late meal, noting the difference in food offerings. “There are a lot of stations at late meal, such as their Asian Bar, which I prefer,” she said.
The university requires all underclassmen to purchase the unlimited meal plan, which automatically includes a late meal allowance. Starting this semester, the amount allotted has increased from nine dollars to nine dollars and 50 cents to match inflation, which remains consistent with a previous allotment increase last fall. However, any meal purchased at the Grill Station, Taco Bar, Asian Bar, and Pizza Station — even though their advertised price is over $9.50 — can be bought by students for late meal with no additional charge, according to a sign posted in the late meal area.
Also new to late meal, Campus Dining has implemented an online ordering platform, TigerDash, for the grill’s lunch and dinner options. The system allows students to purchase menu items ahead of time and avoid waiting in lines. Choices include beef, chicken, vegetarian, quesadillas, and sides.
While the system may lower wait times in the line at the Frist grill, students must order 30 minutes ahead to ensure that their order has been processed when they arrive to pick up their purchase.
Rebecca Cunningham is an assistant News editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.As the University dining pilot program comes to a close at the end of the month, over 85 percent of dining pilot meals have been at dining halls or Frist late meal. Only 2 percent of meals taken have been at eating clubs, while none have been reported at co-ops.
Most dining pilot participants interviewed by The Daily Princetonian said that they did not eat at eating clubs, either because they did not know anyone in the eating clubs or because the process to use their swipe at the eating club was too strenuous. Tension around the inclusion of co-ops in the dining pilot also remains. While much of the discussion around the dining pilot revolved around the eating clubs, the pilot may show that there is more desire to have meals at campus-run locations.

The dining pilot is a trial run of an upperclass dining program proposed by the University. Randomly selected participants are allotted five swipes per week to dine at eating clubs, co-ops, dining halls, retail locations, or late meal. Approximately 10 percent of the upperclass student body is involved in the dining pilot. Those selected to participate in the program received an email the week of Feb. 20, and the program runs through April 30.
In order for dining pilot participants to use their swipes at eating clubs, they require a host from that eating club to accompany them while they dine there. If the participant does not know anyone in that eating club, they are encouraged by the website to contact one of the officers to act as their host.
Sekinat Aliu ’24, a member of Tower Club and dining pilot participant, said, “I was actually really interested in getting to explore other clubs, especially eating clubs with people who I may not necessarily know. But I think we found out that in order to eat at most of the eating clubs, you needed to know someone or you needed to reach out to someone.”
Students in eating clubs can already eat at another eating club or the dining hall with a friend through the Meal Exchange program. Only one out of eight people interviewed by the ‘Prince’ reported using dining pilot swipes to eat at an eating club with a friend.
Aliu also commented on the scarcity of times that eating clubs were open.
“For example, eating clubs like [Colonial Club], and some of the other ones, they just never seem to have times available,” Aliu stated. “When I usually eat it’s around dinner time, but they never seem to have dinner time slots open, so I honestly ended up just eating at dining halls and Studio 34, rather than other eating clubs or co-ops.”
The ‘Prince’ independently confirmed through the Dining Pilot Portal, the website participants use to reserve meals at eating clubs and co-ops, that Colonial was not open for meals and, at the time the ‘Prince’ checked, Cottage and Ivy Clubs had no open slots for meals.
According to a statement by Assistant Vice President for Communications Michael Hotchkiss, “All eating clubs are represented among the dining pilot participants, and 10 of the 11 clubs have made meals available to pilot participants. The clubs offer, on average, 55 meals per week.”
On the page for reserving meals at eating clubs, Colonial is listed as “unavailable at this time,” and Cottage and Ivy are listed as “No Open Times.”
Officers for Colonial, Ivy, and Cottage each declined to comment.
All eating clubs but Cottage recommend participants to contact an officer to coordinate a meal through the website.
Three eating clubs have “black-out dates,” which are days when dining pilot participants are not allowed to dine there. Charter has 10 black-out dates, Tower has one, while Terrace has 47 black-out dates.
Cannon is only open for dinner, the only participating club with no lunch times available.
About the Dining Pilot Portal, participant Shireen Waraich ’24 criticized the cryptic nature of information: “It doesn’t make sense. Half the eating clubs don’t have information on it.”
No eating club officers responded to a request for comment on their participation in the dining pilot.
In a statement to the ‘Prince,’ Hap Cooper ’82, a representative of the Graduate Interclub Council said that “The University offered assurances to the clubs that their members will not be asked to pay into the system beyond their club dues, which eased many of the concerns that were voiced.”
“We look forward to seeing what we learn from the pilot and working toward building a better set of dining options for upperclass students,“ he added.
The statistics from the University also confirmed that dining pilot participants have not been using their swipes at co-ops.
Co-ops and eating clubs are reimbursed ten dollars for every participant that dines at their facilities, according to Hotchkiss.
Sreeta Basu ’24, a current dining pilot participant and a steward for the International Food Co-op (IFC), confirmed this statement to the ‘Prince.’
However, Basu expressed concerns that $10 was not enough to compensate co-ops for the labor that students put into making each meal.
“That’s certainly something that we’ve brought up a number of different times. It’s kind of like, hey, you know, there’s this student labor aspect that’s not really being recognized,” Basu said.
Sarah Gemmell ’24, current dining pilot participant and member of Brown Co-op expressed a similar sentiment.
“I don’t think co-ops should be included in it, because it’s kind of detrimental to them as a whole. If people can just come and go and you don’t know who’s gonna be there and how much you’re gonna make, that’s not feasible long term,” she told the ‘Prince.’
Gemmell is an Associate Puzzles Editor for the ‘Prince.’
During the planning process for the dining pilot, Basu felt that she and other IFC leaders were pressured by the University into allowing IFC to join the dining pilot.
“It is kind of one of those things where I feel like we’re just thrown into it. And it has a lot of implicit repercussions that I think are either kind of unfair or otherwise unrecognized,” Basu said.
She specified that in meetings between co-ops and the University, co-op leaders had asked to be left out of the dining pilot program. In response, Basu told the ‘Prince,’ University leaders implied that, since co-ops are already given prox access and allowed to use University kitchens, there is an expectation that “‘because we [the University] do these things for you, you’re expected to do them back.’”
Basu also said that she worried about how IFC would handle dining pilot participants with allergies.
When planning the dining pilot, the University met with co-op representatives. Each co-op is permitted to include information about their approach to food allergens on the dining pilot app, which is used by program participants, according to Hotchkiss.
Basu explained that it is difficult to explain all dietary issues and that individuals’ “comfort with them kind of varies.”
“It’s kind of hard for us as students when we’re trying to warn people about coming here, how careful they need to be,” Basu said. “It’s really hard for us to say we can accommodate it, but it’s also really hard to come up with a list of things we can’t accommodate.”
Basu went on to explain that, for example, IFC can’t accommodate a kosher kitchen, because there is no space for it.
Additionally, because Princeton co-ops are a student organization and part of the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students (ODUS), Basu expressed concern that co-ops would be held liable under Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities if something were to happen at the co-op.
Angel Kuo ’24, another current dining pilot participant and president of the Brown co-op, said that adding co-ops to the dining pilot “felt weird at first.” But he was more positive about the program as a whole.
“We have a quote-unquote ‘unlimited guest policy.’ So if you have someone interested in trying out the club, they can come in whenever. If people in the club have friends that they want to bring, they can bring them as long as it’s not like an everyday thing,” Kuo said.
“Later on they told us if people come for dinner, they pay us per person. After that, we were pretty excited,” Kuo stated. “We wanted to open up more slots, but so far we haven’t had anyone come in.”
Kuo serves as Art Director for the ‘Prince.’
Other dining pilot participants interviewed by the ‘Prince’ confirmed that they either spent their swipes at late meal, retail locations, or dining halls.
Candace Do ’24, current dining pilot participant and member of Brown co-op said, “I mostly use my swipes in campus cafes and at late meal, and also dining halls occasionally, but that was kind of similar to just the two swipes that week the upperclassmen get.”
Do is a Head Photo Editor emeritus for the ‘Prince.’
Students on the dining pilot expressed enthusiasm for being able to get late meal again. The late meal program gives students on the unlimited meal plan nine dollars per meal to get food at the Frist Food Gallery, and is very popular among underclassmen. Upperclassmen not on the unlimited meal plan, including those in eating clubs and co-ops, do not have access to late meal.
Most upperclassmen interviewed were excited to have late meal back, as they had not been on campus in 2021 due to COVID-19.
Brandon Gauthier ’24, current dining pilot participant and steward of IFC co-op wrote in an email to the ‘Prince,’ “Having late meal back is the dopest thing to ever happen to an upperclassman besides graduation.”
Students interviewed by the ‘Prince’ expressed that they would not pay for the dining pilot if it were not free anymore.
Aliu said, “If it felt as though it was like paying for extra swipes, then that wouldn’t make the pilot special.”
Janny Eng is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Having been deprived of chicken quesadillas and mass-produced sushi since May, I was eager to return to Frist Campus Center for my first late meal of the year. It came as a surprise to me, then, to discover that food prices at the Food Gallery in Frist had increased from what they were last semester, with most entrées exceeding the Unlimited Dining Plan’s then-allotted $8 late lunch and dinner credit.
Although Princeton recently adjusted this credit to $9, the surge in pricing has nevertheless revealed a significant weakness of the current late meal pricing scheme: it fails to truly accommodate students who rely on its purported purpose. The University must restructure this system if it truly wishes to offer a viable meal alternative for its students: an entrée, side, and a drink should be the standardized late meal package, irrespective of price.
Over the past week, almost every peripheral conversation in Frist has been about the Food Gallery’s substantial increase in prices. Despite the increased late meal credit, many items remain inaccessible with the credit alone. For example, cheeseburgers and fried chicken sandwiches exceed the new $9 limit. Entrées at the other stations can be even more expensive, with some priced well beyond $10. The only item under the current limit at the new Asian food station, for example, is an appetizer portion of vegetable potstickers. This, of course, does not include the price of a drink.
According to the late meal page on Princeton University’s Campus Dining website, “Campus Dining recognizes that students may be unable to dine during regular dining hall hours. Therefore, students with meal plans are entitled to use their plan to purchase late lunches Monday to Friday and late dinner Monday to Thursday at the Food Gallery at Frist.” This not only explicitly acknowledges the too-common phenomenon of not being able to eat lunch or dinner due to commitments that may conflict with normal dining hall hours, but also highlights the need for providing students on meal plans with the meals they are entitled to, per their plans.
This semester, I will be unable to eat lunch in a dining hall Monday through Thursday because of class and scheduled commitments, so I will likely be eating late lunch four times a week. This is not a unique circumstance; countless students have classes, jobs, and obligations that will leave them in similar positions. Students must now either severely restrict their food options, or consistently pay out of pocket for lunch and/or dinner, effectively creating an unbalanced imposition on the students who may rely on late meal the most.
The newly introduced Dining Points system initially seems to remedy this problem: students on the unlimited meal plan receive $150 worth of dining points loaded onto their TigerCard at the beginning of every semester, which could be used to cover whatever the current late meal allowance doesn’t. However, this program was announced via email by the USG as “an opportunity for students to connect with each other and the town of Princeton without having to worry about paying out of pocket.” The Dining Points program was created for students to not have to choose between being able to enjoy and afford the occasional meal in Princeton or spend that money on a basic necessity like lunch. Using Dining Points to pay a remaining late meal balance defeats this purpose.
Another solution may be to raise the current late meal credit from its current $9, to a number that covers the price of every entrée — however, this is moving backwards. Instead, the University should abandon the credit system entirely so that every student on a meal plan may be guaranteed a late meal package of an entrée, side, and drink — at the very least — similar to how a dining swipe allows for unlimited access to the dining hall for that meal. The current structure is entirely dependent on the whims of inflation, costs, and gouging. Students on meal plans pay for meals, not discounted entrées.
Christofer Robles is a sophomore contributing columnist from Trenton, N.J. Christofer can be reached at cdrobles@princeton.edu or on Instagram @christofer_robles
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Beginning Sept. 12, late meal allowances for students will increase to nine dollars each for lunch and dinner, up from an allowance of eight dollars per meal. In an email to The Daily Princetonian, University Director of Retail & Catering Cristian Vasquez said that the change meant that “students can order an entrée from any station,” including a fountain beverage, and stay within the allowance.
When classes began last week and late meal — a program which allows students on the unlimited meal plan to purchase food after normal dining hall hours — opened in the Frist Campus Center Gallery again, students found that prices had increased since last semester.
All first-years and sophomores are required by the University to hold the unlimited meal plan, which includes the late meal allowance.
“There are certain days of the week where I physically can’t get lunch because of back-to-back classes, so it’s really unfortunate that I cannot get completely free meals,” Nathan Beck ’25 said. “They have PawPoints now, so it’s unfortunate that I have to use them at late meal, to find food that I like and find nutritious, instead of on Nassau like they were intended.”
Beck is a contributor for The Prospect.
Prior to the allowance hike, students had expressed frustration with the increase in prices rendering some food options inaccessible.
On Twitter, David Chmielewski ’24 wrote of the price increases that “late meal is such a source of community in your first two years but the university apparently wants to make it pay for play for… reasons? I genuinely can’t explain this other than abject cruelty, these policies make no sense.”
Vasquez credited nationwide increases in food prices for creating the higher costs at Frist and across campus, as well as increasing hourly wages to $18.42 “and converting all academic-year staff to 12-month employees.”
The allowance for late meal has increased in the past, from $5.95/lunch and $6.95/dinner in fall 2017 to eight dollars for each meal by 2021.
The unlimited dining plan has seen significant changes since last semester — students with the plan now receive $150 worth of dining points each semester that they can use at select local restaurants, and sophomores can use the points toward spring eating club dues. Vasquez cited these changes, along with the new increase in late meal allowances, as part of University Dining’s goal to “ensure we are providing value for our students.”
Hope Perry is the Head Podcast Editor at the ‘Prince’ who has covered USG, US politics, and student activism. She can be reached at hperry@princeton.edu or on Twitter @hopemperry.
Lia Opperman is an Assistant News Editor who often covers University affairs, student life, and local news. She can be reached at liaopperman@princeton.edu, on Instagram @liamariaaaa, or on Twitter @oppermanlia.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the authors’ views alone. For information on how to submit an article to the Opinion Section, click here.
To the administration of Princeton University and the Princeton community at large:
We, the undersigned Residential College Advisers (RCAs) of Princeton, write to you out of duty to the students of this university. We have been alarmed at the administration’s lack of substantive response or serious regard for the compounding effects of widespread mental health concerns, excessive stress, and dealing with a global pandemic.
While we are pleased by the recently-announced postponement of Dean’s Date, we believe the University must enact more substantial and enduring policy to alleviate long-term issues related to student stress and mental health.
Though the administration’s decision to postpone Dean’s Date displays an acknowledgment and validation of student hardship, it falls short in the following ways. First, it does not provide any aid to certain populations of the student body, such as BSE students and some AB students whose finals consist of only or primarily exams. Indeed, the current exam policy proves to be a hardship for many students. Additionally, the extension of Dean’s Date neglects to address those assignments that have due dates before or after Dean’s Date itself; these professors may assume that their assignments do not require extensions since they were not initially due on Dean’s Date. Furthermore, professors are not currently obligated to extend their Dean’s Date assignments. The extension must be enforced. In short, this small fix does not solve the current dilemma students are facing, and even more notably, cannot act as a lasting solution for the insidious issues at hand.
There are several possible (though still temporary) solutions to these problems. First, a mandate requiring extensions for those papers not due on Dean’s Date should be implemented. This should also apply to the Junior Independent Work deadline. Next, since exams are primarily take-home, we propose an extension of the possible exam period through the month of May, which will allow students the choice of when to take them, at their convenience, under the Honor Code system. Another option regarding exams includes the passage of a mandate requiring the conversion of exams to less intense formats, such as removing time limits (inside the exam window), implementing page caps, or allowing students to use notes.
Still, we must remember that small fixes such as an extension of Dean’s Date, and even the further solutions proposed above, though still relevant and helpful at the moment, only act as temporary band-aids for the systemic issues that will continue to contribute to the deterioration of student mental health and wellness. The wounds will continue to be open until long-lasting action is taken.
Indeed, as in the old “public health river parable,” we must find the source of those who are “drowning” to prevent suffering from the beginning, rather than waiting for them to be in peril to offer resources. Therefore, we call for current and future academic policy by the Princeton University administration to employ compassion and empathy first and as a non-negotiable factor in decision making, rather than prioritizing and privileging traditions of academia, prestige, and rigor. Appearances and optics matter less than the lives of students.
As RCAs and active community members, we speak not only for ourselves but for the advisees and community members with whom we are constantly in contact: the current circumstances are not sustainable or healthy. We are often the first-responders to student mental health crises. One RCA told us, “I have sat in a dorm room holding a crying student who felt she could not go on if she had to complete one more assignment.” Another tells the story of so many students they encounter who are simply frozen in their tracks by the deluge of misfortunes that continue to occur every day — the very thought of work causes them to burst into tears.
Tiger Confessions, an anonymous Facebook group for students, is inundated with alarming emotional statements as of late. “I have suffered enough,” one reads. Another anonymous poster writes, “It’s not that I’ve stopped crying, it’s just that I’m so dehydrated my body can’t produce tears anymore.” One more commenter says, “Stop telling me that CPS is always open … I [visited CPS] the second week on campus … I am literally doing all I can and I’m asking you to be human and help me pass this semester …” A Twitter thread of confessions demonstrates countless other grievances. The lives and futures of our students are on the line, and Princeton needs to take accountability and act for the welfare of its students.
Administrators must not only recognize student suffering but also act intentionally and immediately to implement lasting changes that may not have been considered in the past. It is often noted that current times are unprecedented — our response must be unprecedented as well. The underlying assumption that students can continue to function as we did prior to this pandemic, the influx of constant racial trauma, the ever-present reality of death in and around our community, and the continued salience of adjustment to sudden, acute social isolation is dangerous. Indeed, this University expected (and continues to expect) an unreasonable amount of emotional, mental, and academic flexibility, bandwidth, and resilience from its students even before the pandemic. We know that this can and should change. The University, even in postponing the Dean’s Date deadline, still only addresses the symptoms of a problem it has partially created and indeed continues to perpetuate.
After the conclusion of this extremely trying semester, we hope that this action and consideration for students will continue. Instead of only referring students to CPS and the Office of Religious Life, we implore you to implement significant changes to the structure and norms of the academic year that reduce the stress and mental anguish of students. We will continue this work in earnest, and hope that you will continue to listen to the suggestions of your students.
We write this letter in solidarity with all students at Princeton University who have struggled to cope with a range of difficulties this semester and this year. “You are not alone” is rhetoric that must be matched with action. This is our hope — to help produce this action for you, your mental wellbeing, and your ability to thrive here at Princeton. After all, if we are to be “In the Service of Humanity,” the University should be in the service of its students.
With utmost sincerity,
Josiah Gouker ’22, Rockefeller College RCA
Chloe Horner ’22, Mathey College RCA
Samm Lee ’22, First College RCA
Ben Herber ’22, Rockefeller College RCA
Will Stocovaz ’22, Rockefeller College RCA
Fumika Mizuno ’21, First College RCA
Isabel Lewis ’22, Mathey College RCA
Ella Whitfield ’21, Butler College RCA
Thea Dimapeles ’21, First College RCA
Jessica Cobian ’21, Mathey College RCA
Emily Ryu ’21, Whitman College RCA
Jeremy Bernius ’22, Whitman College RCA
Sabrina Fay ’22, Butler College RCA
Munisa Said ’22, Butler College RCA
Zyanne Clay-Hubbard ’21, Forbes College RCA
Kelton Chastulik ’21, Whitman College RCA
Bruno Aravena Maguida ’21, Rockefeller College RCA.
Austin Colorite ’21, Whitman College RCA
Leah Linfield ’21, Rockefeller College RCA
Kamya Yadav ’21, Rockefeller College RCA
Kavya Chaturvedi ’21, Whitman College RCA
Emily Sanchez ’22, Mathey College RCA
Josh Eastman ’22, Forbes College RCA
Ana Pranger ’22, First College RCA
Ashley Scott ’21, Butler College RCA
Jackson Vail ’21, Butler College RCA
Masha Miura ’21, Whitman College RCA
Zhamoyani McMillan ’21, First College, RCA
Angie Sheehan ’22, First College RCA
Brandon Dunlevy ’21, Forbes College RCA
Cassidy Humphreys ’22, Rockefeller College RCA
Anu Vellore ’22, Butler College RCA
Peter Taylor ’22, Forbes College RCA
Aemu Anteneh ’22, Forbes College RCA
Chris Flores ’21, Forbes College RCA
Lourdes Santiago ’21, Forbes College RCA
Abraham Waserstein ‘21, Butler College RCA
Kirsten Keels ’21, Mathey College RCA
Robert Shi ’21, Forbes College RCA
Rola Adebogun ‘22, Forbes College RCA
Austin Mejia ‘21, Mathey College RCA
Scott Overbey ’21, Butler College RCA
Tinashe Handina ’21, Whitman College RCA
Hifsa Chaudhry ’22, First College RCA
Daniel Benitez ’21, Forbes College RCA
Kalyn Nix ’21, Whitman College RCA
Mayowa Oke ’22, First College RCA
Others may co-sign this letter by filling the Google form at https://forms.gle/2eLEbDT9p6WLJXz88.
Editor’s Note: This article has been updated to include more RCA signatures.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.For many first-years, residential college advisers (RCAs) and peer academic advisors (PAAs) take on the role of mentor and friend, snack plug and course scheduling wizard, rule enforcer and confidante — all while balancing the everyday responsibilities that come with being a Princeton student themselves. And in a virtual semester, these responsibilities have only grown, leading to a change in compensation for both PAAs and RCAs.
The online semester has drastically changed the way in which residential college advisors approach their role. Whereas in normal years RCAs might simply see their zees — short for “advisees” — in the dining hall or knock on their doors, it is more difficult to build a sense of community when students are scattered across the globe.
“I need to catch the Californians but I also need to catch people in Southeast Asia, East Asia — so it's like a 13-hour time difference between my earliest zee and my latest zee,” Butler RCA Raphael Njoku ’22 said. “As you can imagine, trying to juggle them all is a bit tough.”
Even more challenges come with a lack of proximity. RCAs and PAAs both agree that Zoom inhibits productive conversations and friendship-building.
“If I think about my own zee group, I met some of my closest friends by just living near each other, seeing each other, going to zee group things together,” Butler PAA Amy Jeon ’21 said. “I don't know if that's happening somewhere that I’m not seeing it but … I think you need [spaces] to be unstructured for it to be conducive to those kinds of friendships."
Despite the limitations of Zoom, many RCAs have done their best to recreate the zee group experience through weekly study breaks. Without the lure of food, the thought that goes into planning study breaks exceeds what, in a normal year, may have just been leading a quick trip to Wawa. RCAs have tried everything from virtual escape rooms to self-care calls, where they shipped their zees tea samplers and hopped on a call to unwind with face masks.
But the amount of time spent planning study breaks often doesn’t align with the rate of return from zees. The RCAs interviewed have overwhelmingly reported that attendance has plummeted since the beginning of the semester, reaching as low as one or even no zees.
“I had one study break that was mandatory,” Njoku recalled. “I sent out emails, put it in the GroupMe, I even sent them a calendar invite … and still, nobody came.”
Njoku is not alone. Nearly every RCA and PAA has had an experience waiting in a Zoom room in the hopes that a tardy zee will show their face, if only to say hello.
“Sometimes we have nobody show up, so it's just me and the other PAA hanging out there for 20 minutes hoping somebody drops in,” Whitman PAA Seema Gupta ’22 said.
For RCAs and PAAs who were initially driven by their desire to be a resource for first-years struggling to adjust to both college and a virtual semester, the lack of attendance can, at times, feel discouraging.
“Some of the expectations I had at the beginning about being there for zees, getting to know them really well — I think that might’ve been a little overly optimistic,” Rocky PAA Francesca Block ’22 admitted.
Block is a Features writer for The Daily Princetonian.
The unwillingness of certain zees to attend isn’t entirely new.
“Sometimes, and even in normal years, you just have zees that just don't care about the zee group interactions,” Butler RCA Scott Overbey ’21 said. “I think this year, that’s especially prevalent.”
In light of the difficulty of corralling zees to a single study break call, many RCAs have turned to one-on-one sessions to reach the first-years who may not be responsive to larger group calls. While these interactions have proven to be more rewarding, they are also significantly more time-consuming for RCAs.
That being said, even when reaching out to individuals, responses are sometimes difficult to get.
“Even when I reach out to a specific person, [there’s] a 50 percent chance I get a response,” Njoku said. “Maybe when they see the RCA brackets on an email they’re like, ah, delete,” he continued with a laugh.
But for the most part, RCAs and PAAs don’t hold this against their zees. Many of them are cognizant of the fact that these students are caught up in adjusting to a virtual first-year fall.
“I think back to when I was a freshman, getting an email from someone who I don’t really know,” Gupta said. “The odds that I responded were kind of slim, so I get where they’re coming from."
Overbey echoed these sentiments, adding that a virtual semester presents even more obstacles. “I respect that my Zoom study breaks just add on to the time they have to be on Zoom anyways,” he said.
Despite the setbacks and Zoom fatigue associated with being an RCA or PAA, the small meaningful interactions with first-years make the added responsibilities worth it.
“The most encouraging thing [just happened],” Njoku recalled. “One of my zees reached out to me and asked for my advice on picking courses … I cleared up my whole schedule, I said ‘give me a time,’ and jumped on a Zoom call.”
For Njoku, who estimated that his zees had only asked him a total of 15 questions since the school year began, it meant a lot when one of his first-years turned to him for guidance.
“One thing I really wish they knew is that engaging with them and interacting with my zees brings me happiness as well,” he explained. “It’s not quite work and Zoom fatigue for me to set up stuff for my zees … them coming to zee group meetings and stuff like that, it actually energizes me a little bit more.”
This sentiment is shared by RCAs and PAAs alike. Even if their zees may not show up to their study breaks, RCAs and PAAs will always be there for them as a resource or even as a friend.
“This sounds really weird, but when my zees text me, I feel really validated,” Block said, laughing. “When they reach out and I’m able to help them … those are the most positive moments.”
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.
Becoming a Residential College Advisor at the University is highly competitive. The application has multiple stages, which, depending on the residential college, can include written responses to questions, one-on-one interviews with the Director of Student Life, and group interviews with senior
The Daily Princetonian: What has been your favorite part about being an RCA?
Folasade Runcie ’18 (Forbes): My favorite thing this year has been seeing how my ’zee group of 13 girls has become so close. They even do stuff without me having to organize study breaks. I get to see friendships that have formed naturally without me having to be an unnatural force in that formation.
Joshua Burd ’17 (Forbes): I have done other leadership type stuff with my a cappella group and with more academic extracurriculars that are administrative in nature, but I really like this particular leadership job because I feel connected. I feel like I really get a chance to bond with and learn from my ’zees, and to share with them things that I’ve learned at Princeton.
Samuel Davies ’18 (Butler): Everyone’s going to give you the basic stuff and be like, “I love my ’zees.” But I honestly think I have the coolest ’zees. They do a lot of fascinating things, so it’s super fun to just hang out with them.
DP: What has been the hardest part about being an RCA for you?
JB: I think one of the roles as an RCA is to be present for your ’zees whenever they’re having problems. And, of course, you have various things come up in your own life, and when you multiply that times 20, you realize just how many things are going on for everyone.
FR: A hard part is when unexpected things happen, so that I have to facilitate very difficult conversations and try to navigate the options between not pressuring anyone to talk about it and letting people who do want to talk know how to go about it in a helpful way.
Tyler Hoffman ’17 (Wilson): The hardest part about being an RCA is finding a balance between being in a position of authority within a group of people and being friends with that same group of people.
Liam Fitzgerald ’18 (Forbes): I’d say that the hardest part of being an RCA is feeling like you are getting the upperclassman experience that most students want from Princeton while still attempting to feel like you are a part of your residential college. Especially if someone is an RCA and at the same time in an eating club, it can be very hard to find the happy balance in splitting one’s time between their dorm and the street, not just for meals, but also for studying and hanging out.
DP: Have you had any particularly funny, uncomfortable or memorable moments as an RCA?
LF: It is always semi-uncomfortable seeing my ’zees out at the street. I don’t know how to handle it because you want to be friendly but also don’t want to break any professional boundaries.
JB: Sometimes my ’zees are way, way smarter than I will ever be and come into Princeton’s math program at a higher level than I am even though I’m 2 or 3 years ahead. And so we’ll have conversations where I’m asking if their classes are going okay when they’re taking classes that are way harder than I can comprehend ... I find those conversations funny.
FR: There was a snake in Forbes. That was a little funny but also crazy.
DP: What has been one of your favorite study breaks that you have hosted?
TH: I got ice cream with various toppings and baked cookies for my ’zees, and set up a station where they could create personalized ice cream sandwiches.
LF: My ’zees and I actually had one where we got bubble tea and watched an episode of “Black Mirror” as one of them suggested. I thought that I could handle scary movies well, but it turned out that isn’t exactly the case. We were all rattled for a couple days afterwards. Right when it ended, we actually all just sat in silence for a couple minutes watching the credits roll, which was funny in retrospect.
DP: How has being an RCA shaped your experience at Princeton?
TH: There are many difficulties associated with being an RCA. However, when I look back on the experience, I will always look back on it as an extremely positive one. Because the position requires that you’re always thinking about other people, I have become a much better friend, teammate, family member, and a better person overall as a result of being an RCA.
SD: I remember as a freshman I looked up to my RCA a lot. Being able to be in that capacity and having other kids look up to me now is rewarding. You see it come full circle — that’s one of the most rewarding aspects of it — being able to carry it forward by enhancing the lives of future generations of Princeton students.
FR: You become an RCA as a junior and that’s when you start doing independent work and stuff like that, and everyone starts to become so jaded. As an RCA, you constantly get reminded of how great Princeton is by these freshmen that are like, “Princeton’s so awesome.” And you’re like, “Aw yeah, Princeton is awesome.” It makes Princeton new again.Editor’s Note: A previous version of this piece included unsubstantiated claims that University Facilities’ responses to student complaints were delayed. The body of the piece and its title have been updated since publication. The ‘Prince’ regrets this error.
This fall, many students have reported worsening mice infestation in University housing, especially in upperclass dorms. Some students claim that Facilities’ response to the prevalence of mice is inadequate.
Walking down the halls of Brown Hall, several door handles hold Facilities work notices with “mice” marked as the issue being addressed.
Sicile Naddeo-Gjergji ’26, a Brown resident, who reported frustration with Facilities in previous years, attempted to handle her mouse issues on her own this year.
“We have contacted Facilities in years prior, but the mouse traps haven’t typically worked,” she explained.
In Brown, issues with mice are common.
“Our next door neighbors also have them [as well as] several other people on the floor,” Naddeo-Gjergji said.
Naddeo-Gjergji said she and her roommate have seen mice in their rooms every year since arriving on campus, yet they have “never had them so early in the year.”
Abigail Rabieh ’25 faced similar issues in her dorm in Laughlin-1901 Hall. Around Oct. 25, Rabieh spotted her first mouse.
“We were seeing mice every day for at least 10 days after that,” she said. “I’ve heard a lot more about mice this year.”
Rabieh is the public editor for The Daily Princetonian.
Rabieh explained that last year, when a mouse appeared in her dorm, she contacted Facilities and they came the next day, filling up holes in her dorm.
“This year, the process was much different. They didn’t fill up the holes until almost two weeks after I requested … I think I called Facilities like eight times,” she said.
In an email to the ‘Prince,’ University spokesperson Jennifer Morrill said, “Facilities takes response times to pest related complaints and work orders seriously. They contract with Western Pest Services to prioritize services calls within two to four days, but the response is often much sooner including same or next business day. This year, Facilities has seen a slight increase in work orders associated with mice in all dorm locations, however, there is no clear indicator for the increase. This data tends to ebb and flow from year to year.”
“In addition to regular maintenance, weekly exclusion work is also being performed. This work includes sealing up potential entry points around a building like cracks, gaps and holes to prevent pests from entering,” wrote Ahmad Rizvi, a University spokesperson, in an email to the ‘Prince.’
Rabieh feels that there is a lack of resources for students who are dealing with these infestations.
“Over the weekend, I was seeing mice, and the only people to call are PSAFE,” she said.
Public Safety (PSAFE) informed her that the only thing they could do was provide a temporary room in McCosh Health Center.
When asked about the mice infestations on campus, Rizvi wrote that students should follow pest control recommendations, such as storing food in glass or hard plastic containers and emptying trash regularly. Some of the residents claim, however, that improperly stored food-stuff is not the issue.
“It’s definitely not because of food, because we don’t keep anything out,” Naddeo-Gjergji said.
Mice have been spotted in newer residential buildings as well. Stephen Padlo ’25, an RCA living in Hariri Hall in Yeh College, said that he has had one encounter with a mouse in the college this semester — though the issue does not appear to be widespread.
“I have not heard of any other accounts of Yeh having a mouse,” he clarified. “We met with all the RCAs, and if there was a mouse problem, someone else would have said they had a mouse.”
“Reports of mice in dorms vary from year to year and season to season,” Rizvi wrote. “It is normal to see an uptick in mice activity during colder months as they seek warmth.”
In addition to mice, Rizvi wrote to the ‘Prince‘ that Facilities has received complaints about other pests, primarily insects such as fruit flies, gnats, bees, roaches, and ants.
“I’m grateful for what Facilities did to help stop the problem,” Rabieh said.
Kimberly Vasta is a News contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.In the past two years, the University has spent over $73,000 replacing plates, bowls, and silverware in dining halls, according to data obtained by The Daily Princetonian.
University data shows that Choi dining hall, located in Yeh College and New College West, has alone spent nearly $44,000 in the past two years replacing 4,440 plates and 2,240 bowls. The remaining $29,000 comes from replacing 20,400 forks, 5,460 knives, 5,580 bouillon [soup] spoons, and 2,520 teaspoons.
The expense mainly comes from individuals pocketing dishes and other tableware from the dining hall and taking them into common spaces and dorm rooms. A spokesperson for the University said that they expect 10–15 percent of the tableware to break, meaning that about $62,470–$66,145 is spent on replacing lost tableware.
For comparison, tuition for the 2024-25 academic year is $62,400.
Dirty plates are frequently scattered around the Yeh and NCW common spaces. Jaime Chen ’25, a Yeh RCA, told the ‘Prince’ that when RCAs are on-call — shifts where they monitor students on nights out — looking after those dishes is a considerable part of their job.
“Most of the things that we log are really just issues of dishes being left around the college,” Chen said. After those logs, the RCAs are instructed to remind their Zees to return dishes to the dining hall and keep common spaces clean.
The college staff is well aware of the issue. Last spring, the Yeh college office included a graphic at the top of its weekly newsletters to students that read, “Keep our halls free from mice and pests! Return dishes to the dining hall and clean up any trash left behind!” Additionally, there was a “Yeh Community Cleanup” day on April 29, with pictures advertising the day including stacks of dishes in common spaces.
Residents have observed mice due to dirty plates left in common spaces. Sophia Vernon ’27, who lives in New College West, said she had to file a Facilities work order last year after she found mice in her room on the fifth floor of Addy Hall.
“There’s sometimes mice even on higher floors because people take so many dishes with food on them up to their rooms,” she told the ‘Prince.’ “And then, of course, the mice go where the food is.”
Campus Dining is also aware of the issue, but Assistant Vice President of Campus Dining Nadeem Siddiqui says he isn’t too concerned.
“I think their intent is to bring it back,” Siddiqui told the ‘Prince’ in an interview. “I think part of it is that, unfortunately, [students are] scheduled. I don't think anybody is intentionally taking it.”
“We have custodial staff on each floor that have been always helpful to see something [and] will bring it back to us … It would be nice to have things come back,” he continued. “I think things have improved, at least since I’ve been here. But the plates over at Yeh/West are the nicest ones, so they seem to have more legs than others. I think that’s just the nature of it.”
The $36,000 annual cost of replacing tableware is only 0.08 percent of the Campus Dining budget, which Siddiqui says is about $42 million. Siddiqui told the ‘Prince’ that if the cost was reduced, the money would go towards reducing Campus Dining’s subsidy from the University.
“We would have less subsidy, which we want to do, because that money can go [towards] much better causes at the University and the mission they have,” Siddiqui said.
Siddiqui says that soon-to-be-built dining halls will be built in the same setup as Yeh/NCW.
“I think the intent we’re moving towards is that the cashier will be just in the servery area and open seating for everybody to kind of come together,” Siddiqui said. “You want people to meet with you who are not on the meal plan. They should be able to eat together without having to worry about them.”
“Forbes is on a renovation path right now, and, when Hobson opens, they’ll [both] have the same structure as the Yeh/West cashier,” Siddiqui continued. “When you’re building community, it’s really difficult to say, ‘you’re [in] an eating club like you don’t have a meal plan.’ Let’s just say you want to meet somebody here, either you have to pay to eat a meal that you don’t want [or] have a discussion.”
“It doesn’t seem to me a very good structure for a residential program — nickel-and-diming students when you really want to feel like everybody’s equal and they can have a connection,” he said. “That’s how Princeton is moving.”
Charlie Roth is a senior News editor, assistant Data editor, education director, and Sports contributor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.Seven alumni have been elected to serve on the 2024-25 Board of Trustees, the University announced Friday, June 28. With seven other trustees having completed their terms on June 30, the size of the Board remains at 37 members.
Bob Peck ’88 and Anthony Yoseloff ’96 will be returning to the Board having completed their terms in 2023, while Aisha Chebbi ’24, Ann Chen ’89, Anthony Romero ’87, Sarah Marie Michelle Bruno GS ’21, and Edward Felsenthal ’88 were elected to the Board for the first time.
The seven trustees who recently completed their terms are Jackson Artis ’20, Pete Briger ’86, Janeria Easley GS ’16, Henri Ford ’80, Philip U. Hammarskjold ’87, Carla Vernón ’92, and Melissa Wu ’99.
Members of the Board are not required to have graduated from the University, however, with the exception of ex officio member Gov. Phil Murphy, all current trustees are alumni.
The board elected Bob Peck ’88 and Anthony Yoseloff ’96 to serve six-year terms as Charter Trustees. According to the Office of the President, if re-elected, Charter Trustees have the opportunity to serve an “additional, contiguous two-year term.”
Peck, the managing director of private investment firm FPR Partners, previously served on the Board as Term Trustee from 2019–23. The first in his family to attend college, Peck graduated with an A.B. in History and funded an initiative to provide opportunities for first-generation and low-income Princeton students such as life sciences and engineering courses in Princeton’s Freshman Scholars Institute (FSI). In addition, he is currently the Chair of the Princeton University Investment Company (PRINCO) Board of Directors.
Yoseloff is also a member of the PRINCO Board of Directors, and similarly served as Term Trustee from 2019–23. He received an A.B. from the School of Public and International Affairs and is currently management partner and chief investment officer of Davidson Kempner Capital Management. He is also a member of various nonprofit boards. In 2011, Yoseloff and his wife Nanar made a gift to name Yoseloff Hall, one of five dormitories in Butler College.
Having previously served as trustees, Peck and Yoseloff were eligible to serve as Charter Trustees as it had been one year since the conclusion of their previous term.
Ann Chen ’89 and Anthony Romero ’87 were elected by the board to serve four-year terms as Term Trustees.
Chen, a former partner at Bain & Company, earned her B.S.E. in computer science and is now an independent nonprofit consultant based in the Bay Area. She is on the board of nonprofit literacy organizations Common Sense and the Corporation of Yaddo, and has previously served on Princeton’s Dean’s Leadership Council, the alumni board of Harvard Business School, and Harvard Graduate School of Education’s Dean’s Leadership Council.
Romero is the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), where he has worked since September 2001. He received an A.B. from the School of Public and International Affairs and was awarded the Woodrow Wilson Award in 2019. In August 2023, Romero spoke at an orientation event for first-year students, reflecting on his career and urging members of the Class of 2027 to engage in discourse and free expression.
Sarah Marie Michelle Bruno GS ’21 and Edward Felsenthal ’88 were chosen by alumni to serve four-year terms as Alumni Trustees.
Bruno earned her Ph.D. in physics from Princeton after receiving a Bachelor of Arts in physics from Cornell University. She currently works at Johns Hopkins University as an assistant research scientist, and serves on the American Astronomical Society’s Committee for the Protection of Astronomy and the Space Environment (COMPASSE). During her time as a graduate student, Bruno furthered mental health programs on campus as Health & Life Chair of the Graduate Student Government (GSG).
Felsenthal received an A.B. degree from the School of Public and International Affairs, and has led several major media organizations during his career in journalism. He currently serves as Executive Chair of Time Magazine, where he was formerly editor-in-chief and CEO. Felsenthal frequently returns to campus, participating in residential college events, reunions panels, and other programs.
Aisha Chebbi was elected by the classes of 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025 to serve a four-year term as Young Alumni Trustee. An anthropology major from Miami, Florida, Chebbi held several leadership roles during her time as an undergraduate, including being a Residential College Advisor (RCA) for Yeh College and co-president of the Muslim Students Association. She was recently awarded the 2024 Spirit of Princeton Award for service, and is currently a Fulbright Scholar in Germany.
Ava Fonss is a staff News writer for the ‘Prince.’
Please send corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.One of my earliest memories of Princeton is a talk about legacy admissions during orientation. My RCA asked my zee group about our thoughts on legacies, and several people expressed what seemed to be the prevailing opinion: legacy admissions are unfair and take away opportunities from more deserving students. They said those things perhaps not knowing that four of the people in the room with us were legacy students. In the short time I’ve been here, I’ve heard people say “I hate legacies” or generalize about how “legacies are so spoiled” — however, I’ve found that some of the most passionate and dedicated people around me are, in fact, legacy students. The fact of the matter is that the admissions process is always unfair, and there is an implication that unfair is equal to unjustified or unworthy. But there are many types of preferential admissions, from athletic to regional, and examining these cases shows us that “unfair” is not necessarily bad — preferential admissions, including legacy admissions, are necessary to create a diverse class and campus.
Preferential admissions of all types help achieve the goal of a diverse student body. Although the primary issue with diversity is still the underrepresentation of certain racial minorities, that doesn’t preclude other types of preferential admissions from contributing to diversity on campus. Princeton’s page on “Our Commitment to Diversity” writes that “Princeton students should live and learn in an environment that reflects U.S. society and introduces them to the world beyond.” That means an environment with students from different racial backgrounds, socioeconomic classes, and with different sexualities, among other things. It can also mean legacies. The U.S. college system is, at times notoriously, holistic. So it should not come as a surprise when factors other than academic merit play into someone’s admission.
In order to fulfill all the needs of a school like Princeton, there needs to be all sorts of preferential admissions, even ones that some might take issue with. Take athletic recruiting — in a technical sense, it is an unfair advantage in admissions, because it’s not related to academic criteria. But as much as Princeton remains an academic environment, sports, too, are an integral part of the University’s culture and entertainment. The University community, from alumni to administration to students, values having winning, competitive sports teams. It’s rather clear that we haven’t, and won’t any time soon, given that up in favor of more technically “equitable” admissions.
Another example of preferential admissions is the University’s consideration of the optional Arts Supplement. The optional supplement allows applicants to submit samples of “architecture, creative writing, dance, music, music theater, theater or visual arts.” There is a preference — at the very least extra attention — given to students who demonstrate artistic talents beyond academic merit, never mind that this may implicitly favor students from a wealthier socioeconomic background. Students from better-funded high schools or with the means to receive outside training have more opportunities to develop many of the skills that Princeton’s Arts Supplement considers. Nevertheless, the University values the creativity and the variety in the talents that are demonstrated through the Arts Supplement, and this ultimately contributes to the diversity of a class.
Legacy admissions are just another type of preferential admissions, like athletic and arts preferences. Legacy admissions too have a good reason for existing: they play a role in fostering the intergenerational community Princeton values so strongly. From the large alumni gatherings to eating club reunions, an intergenerational community creates a strong sense of connectedness to a community that, at many other universities, is limited to the four years people spend on campus. Legacy admissions also incentivize the continued support of alumni for the University. Say an alumnus was donating to the University regularly, out of a sense of loyalty, nostalgia, or otherwise. It’s not unnatural that if their kid, especially when they’re well-qualified, is denied admission, those donations might stop. When all other aspects are held equal, it can be more worthwhile for the University to accept a child of an alum, for the sake of maintaining connections to donors and alumni.
Moreover, legacy admissions contribute to maintaining the tradition and culture of Princeton. Much has changed since the founding of the University, and most of it for the better, but there is still value in carrying forward remnants of the original culture and mission of one of the oldest institutions in the United States. Just like it’s valuable for a school to have star athletes and Olympiad winners, it can also be worthwhile for it to have some legacy students. Legacies generally come in knowing more about the University, presumably having grown up around family stories about and even visits to Princeton. In fact, they likely applied knowing better than others precisely why they wanted to go here, and how they would contribute to the community. It’s important to have students with some familiarity and connection to the University, so that traditions can be carried on and shared.
The advantages to being a legacy are indeed unfair. After all, although legacies can contribute something unique to the community, legacy preference isn’t based on prior academic merit.  But that is not all that matters in admissions. Everyone who was admitted had some reason that made the University want them to attend. It could be the unique experiences from living overseas or for the character developed by overcoming the challenges of growing up in a low-income household; it could be an opportunity gained by some combination of skill and luck in high school, or an aspect of identity that cannot be changed. We don’t choose many of the circumstances that impact our lives, including whether we were born to parents who graduated from here. Regardless of its stance on legacy admissions, Princeton has pledged that it won’t lose sight of its efforts to increase diversity in the ways that matter. So we don’t need to discredit legacies on the sole basis that they are the children of alumni. Legacy status is just another type of preferential admissions — and it’s more useful for us to acknowledge it in that context, as part of the aim to build a diverse class, and to recognize what good legacy admissions can bring to our community.
Sarah Park is a contributing columnist for the ‘Prince’ and a first-year intending to pursue a major in Comparative Literature. She is from Manila, Philippines, and can be reached at sarahpark@princeton.edu.
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The following is a guest contribution and reflects the author’s views alone. For information on how to submit a piece to the Opinion section, click here.
I graduated from Princeton during the pandemic. I remember being excited to have recently joined the Terrace F. Club and to work on my junior paper before suddenly being kicked off campus and thrown into two years of uncertainty. Throughout that time of change and isolation, I had a lot of time to think about what a meaningful life might look like for me.
I discovered that my answer to what a meaningful life should be is this: As long as I have a roof over my head and my bills are paid, with a little fun money here and there, I can find happiness anywhere. And while I believe this to be true, I often wonder whether this approach is really making the most of my life after the Princeton experience.
The truth is meaning can be found in all forms of life. There never was — or is — a singular right way to live one’s life. Having a Princeton degree doesn't change this reality. Princeton’s privilege will always be a part of our lives, but the many ways in which we choose to go forth after this experience all deserve the same validation and appreciation, regardless of how they differ from the ‘ideal’ of an Ivy League graduate. Especially for the mundane.
In talking to some of my fellow Princeton grads, the feeling that we are not living up to our Princeton degrees or that we are somehow behind in life seems to be a commonly held anxiety. Many of our classmates are making obscene amounts of money right out of undergrad, marrying their Princeton sweethearts, becoming social media stars, being named Forbes 30 under 30 recipients, and so much more. If they were able to accomplish all of this soon after leaving Princeton, what are we doing wrong?
Earlier this year, Nicholas Tippenhauer, Assistant Dean for Studies in Rockefeller College, published an article on dealing with the pressures of being a student while worrying about success during and after Princeton. As a fellow FLI graduate and Questbridge scholar, the experiences he detailed resonated with me beyond words, and got me thinking about what success means to me — as well as the undue pressure we place on ourselves so soon after completing one of the most challenging educational experiences in the country.
While I am a content creator, I realized that a lot of my feelings of inadequacy are sourced from the very thing I love — social media. Every day we see seemingly everyone around us traveling to some new destination or celebrating some new life milestone we have yet to hit. Hundreds of likes and comments support the image of ourselves that we present to the world. However, it’s just that: an image. We choose what we want to share with the world, regardless whether it’s positive or negative. I have to accept that comparing myself to other alumni on social media is a never-ending battle that does not really define my success.
Coming from a tiny town in Arkansas, Princeton was a surprise for me. Though my mama always supported my passions, regardless of what they were, and saw Princeton as a blessing, it was only after coming to Princeton that the pressure of success made me question my decision to major in Music. Then after graduating, I felt like I wasn’t a “good” music major for not creating music or working in a music-related field. Once again I felt like I was not living up to my Princeton degree for majoring in a less lucrative area of study and working in a field different than my major, a sentiment I’ve heard from other Princeton alumni.
But what I have learned is that even if my life isn’t flashy, it isn’t without fulfillment.
I’m doing work that I love in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusions (DEI) at another institution while also making time to perform when I can. I have a roof over my head, my bills are paid, and my cat is well-fed and happy. I was able to finance a car with my own big girl credit and career, something my family could only dream of.
For many of us, especially first-generation Princeton alumni, there was no foundation to build our idea of success on. While others have had generations of a head start, our stories are just now beginning. And what a powerful story we are creating by celebrating our seemingly mundane lives by being able to provide for ourselves and our family.
This is not all to say that everything has been easy. I’m single with an abysmal dating life and am still actively working to make friends and find community as an adult. Some paychecks go a little further than others. Sometimes it’s hard to get out of bed in the morning and feel like I’m doing enough. But what matters most to me is that I’m happy.
While it can be important to strive for more, it is more important to be able to revel in your happiness. With such great pressure to live up to Princeton’s name as an alum, it is important to appreciate the beautifully mundane and unremarkable. Moments like when you pay your rent and treat yourself to coffee afterward. Or when you complete your assignments on time for your graduate program, or when you go out of your comfort zone on a Hinge date — and it is hilariously bad. There is so much beauty in just existing as you are.
Greatness is subjective, and if that’s what you seek, it will come. But for now? Enjoy the little victories in life that make the experience of being human, human. I’m proud of all of you for surviving the turmoil of Princeton, and now tackling adulthood one day at a time. Don’t sell yourself short by comparison, the thief of joy. Greet everyday as you can, and know, there’s always someone — a random stranger writing this article — rooting for you in the beautifully mundane. 

Kirsten Keels ’21 is currently a Program Manager for the Center of Equity, Inclusion, and Community and the Bard Queer Leadership Project at Bard College at Simon’s Rock. As an undergraduate she was a Music major and a Mathey RCA. She can be reached at: kkeels@simons-rock.edu.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.“Of course, we took the robes off to race,” John Miller ’73 said. “The only thing I had on was a pair of sunglasses.”
It was 1971. Miller and Romerio Perkins ’74 had been drinking for a few hours after skipping class. By 1 a.m., the two stood in silk robes before a rowdy crowd of students.
Spectators lined the edges of the Holder courtyard on both sides of a roped-off 50-yard stretch ahead. Half a dozen referees milled about, ensuring nothing got out of hand, but didn’t interfere. And then, the race was off.
“I don’t know how word got out, but it really did spread,” Miller said.
It was the first Nude Olympics, an ad hoc drunken athletic event that would blossom into an established winter-time tradition on campus. Over the next few decades, hundreds of sophomores participated each year, stripping in Holder Courtyard on the night of the first snowfall.
“I think that was really the start of it all, it was totally spontaneous,” Miller said. “It really did become an institution.”
The Nude Olympics lasted for nearly thirty years, peaking in the 1980s and ’90s. According to Heidi Anderson ’94, there were even t-shirts made featuring censored stick figures to celebrate the occasion.
“By the time I was there,” Donna Riley ’93 said, “[there were] hundreds of people in the Holder quad naked, doing calisthenics.”
In the days before cell phones were commonplace, word of the event was spread by mouth and landlines. In some years, there was a torch-bearer or trash can Olympic flame.
But for the most part, the logistics remained simple — the night after it first snowed on campus, willing sophomores showed up to Holder courtyard for the festivities, preferably wearing as little as possible. The unpredictability of the first snowfall, for many students, was part of the tradition’s fun.
“If that means you’re going to have to find a way to do Nude Olympics on a Monday night when you’ve got a paper due on Tuesday morning … it’s something to work around,” Kirk Palmer ’89 said. Palmer was a Holder resident as a sophomore.
“People from all over campus did come to participate, but [there was] a little bit of an extra incentive if you were a local,” he added.
Over the years, the tradition grew ever more riotous. Michael Jennings, Professor of Modern Languages Emeritus, was the Master of Rockefeller College –– the role now referred to as Head of the College –– from 1990–1999 and influenced the ultimate ban of the Games.
“Students think, ‘if it’s a Princeton tradition, it must have started in 1760.’ This didn’t start in 1760,” Jennings explained. “It started in a big way in the late 1980s, where large numbers of students, and for the first time, women, started to participate.”
But the tradition died before the turn of the century as administrators grew increasingly concerned with excessive drinking at the event, along with disreputable student behavior and safety risks concerning female participants. Threats of suspension discouraged participation, and the Nude Olympics quickly turned from legacy to legend, now prompting stories — but no streaking — as the first snowflakes land each year on campus.
In 1980, The Daily Princetonian reported that “30 of the nation’s finest men [were] gingerly doing jumping jacks in the snow,” after lighting an “eternal flame” in a garbage can at the center of Holder courtyard.
The more determined participants made the event into a full athletic competition. By the late 1980s, the Games included wrestling, jumping jacks, sit-ups, push-ups, and wheelbarrows. Other students, like Anderson, preferred to run around and streak rather than take a calisthenic-intensive approach.
Often, the naked Olympians would leave Holder courtyard. Palmer, who participated in 1987, said the festivities regularly extended into Firestone Library later in the night.
“That was especially fun … to interrupt the people who [were] studying, run past them, and maybe do some jumping jacks in the library,” he said.
Some of the unclothed athletes even made their way onto Nassau Street. J.B. Winberie’s restaurant and bar was a common destination for runners to wreak scenes of havoc and disorder. The Class of 1994 had to reimburse the eatery $1,500 for incurred damages after their Nude Olympics night. The next year, over thirty participants were arrested for disorderly conduct in town.
Jamison Abbott ’96, who broke tradition and participated as a first-year with some fraternity friends, spent the night following the Nude Olympics in jail.
“About 50 people ended up in the Wawa, and it was chaos,” Abbott said. “They were knocking shelves over and throwing stuff, and it was pretty bad.”
Abbott was arrested with another first-year for stealing a banner, wall clock, and gallon of ice cream from the store. He pled guilty to shoplifting and disorderly conduct and was ultimately hit with a fine and 30 hours of community service.
He returned home for the winter holidays a few days after being thrown in a police car. When he finally came clean to his parents, the news didn’t come as a surprise — it was already reported on the radio.
Although there was never an official gender restriction on the Nude Olympics (the only qualification was being a sophomore, preferably intoxicated), the first few classes of naked frolickers were all men.
The first year that saw major female participation was 1987, a shift covered by the ‘Prince,’ which garnered mixed reactions from male and female students alike.
“Women always have the right to run naked in my backyard,” Holder resident Mark Rubin ’90 told the ‘Prince’ in the 1987 article. “I'm no chauvinist.”
Others saw female participation in the games as contradictory to recent feminist organizing campaigns against pornography. Still, many looked positively on the co-ed participation.
“I understand the issues around gender equality [and] people being uncomfortable, but I felt like [ours] was pretty good, clean, fun,” Palmer added.
Anderson recalls that women were well–represented at her Olympics in 1991 — the same year that Tiger Inn became co-ed as a result of the Sally Frank ’80 lawsuit that reached the New Jersey Supreme Court. The previous fall, Ivy Club had accepted its first women as well.
“Things were more equality-based. None of us felt threatened, or [none] I personally [knew] of,” Anderson added. Though she didn’t recall problems with the activity itself, Anderson noted naked groups gathering around dormitory entrances made residents feel uncomfortable since key card locks had been placed for the first time on entryway doors, adding obstacles to entry.
Riley holds a different view. The same year, she remembers a “critical mass of women” participants, although the demographics leaned majority male and white. The over-drinking before the event concerned her more.
“For women, the Nude Olympics wasn’t a safe place to be,” explained Riley. “People couldn’t be naked without being very drunk, created this environment where groping [and] sexual assault happened. It wasn’t possible to do it responsibly with that many people.”
When she was a first-year, Riley recalls hearing of a woman in the class of ’92 who was sexually assaulted in her year’s Nude Olympics. That story, in combination with the budding tradition of the Take Back the Night March in protest of campus sexual assault, “informed [her] thinking pretty heavily on what [she] would do that night,” she said.
Riley planned an alternative sledding event in the Forbes backyard for women who wanted to enjoy the first snow without taking off their clothes or drinking to excess, borrowing trays from the dining halls.
While Anderson enjoyed participating in the Olympics, she believed that “if people drank too much or were touched too much, that does supersede all.”
“It’s frustrating when people take things to the extreme or can’t just purely enjoy it,” she said.
Ultimately, these safety concerns, combined with the increased rowdiness, led to a University-imposed ban of the Nude Olympics and for the tradition to fade from an annual tradition to storied lore.
Over the ’80s and ’90s, student behavior grew ever-rowdier, with one University spokesperson calling it “mob-like.” In 1993, the University considered setting up lights in the pathways used to deter participants from the Olympics.
Former Dean of Student Life Janina Montero began a residential college advisor (RCA) campaign in the early 1990s to warn students against dangerous behavior during the Games.
In 1992, Princeton borough police arrested over 30 students on charges of lewdness and disorderly conduct following the event. Abbott, the student arrested outside Wawa the following year, thought behavior had gotten much more out of hand by his time compared to when it started in the ’70s.
“It’s a shame it got to the point where the University had to say ‘Look, this ends now; anyone who sets foot outside naked is done,’” Abbott said.
“I wasn’t worried about liability, I was worried about students being hurt, or worse,” Jennings said, whose room in Rocky gave him a clear view of the risky consequences of the Games.
Along with Master of Mathey College David Carassco, Jennings was responsible for the letter that got University President Harold Shapiro GS ’64 to ban the Olympics in 1999. They held multiple concerns regarding the event, one of which was the growing presence of outside spectators.
When Palmer participated in the tradition in the late 1980s, he didn’t notice anyone taking photos or any outside observers. To his recollection, everyone was a student.
“Back then, you would have stuck out like a sore thumb if you brought a camera to this,” Anderson said, who participated in 1991. “If you were a freshman spectator snapping camera pictures, that would not have been received well.”
Though photography of the event was rare, the crowds were growing. The ‘Prince’ estimated that 500 spectators gathered to watch the 1991 games.
“As more students participated, and especially more women participated, the notoriety of the event began to spread,” Jennings said.
He recalls that the crowd of spectators grew over the years, expanding from only students to include adults from the community. Jennings said the audience got “creepier and creepier,” and that many men in particular brought cameras to the event.
By the mid-’90s, Abbott said, “there were definitely outside people with cameras.”
“If we lived in a world where young people could run around without clothes on and be safe, I’d have no problem with it,” Jennings said.
Student drinking also grew ever-more excessive. After ten sophomores were hospitalized for alcohol poisoning from the 1999 Olympics, administrators came out strongly in favor of stomping out the bacchanalian tradition. President Shapiro formed a committee to review recent iterations of the Games, citing concerns over alcohol abuse and student safety.
“President Shapiro is serious about stopping any event of this nature, and the trustees stand firmly behind him,” the ‘Prince’ quoted Dean of Student Life Montero as saying. “The University’s resolve is entirely unambiguous.”
The news was not received positively by everyone. In response, Al Walling Class of 2000 reportedly promised to run the following year.
“You better tell Public Safety to lay off the doughnuts, because they’re going to have to catch me,” he said.
But when the University promised a year-long suspension to anyone participating in drunken, naked events after the first snowfall, the Nude Olympic flame quickly died. Through decades of first snowfalls since, there have never been any widespread revivals of the antics.
In general, streaking and related activities no longer proliferate on college campuses the way they did in the twentieth century. With the rise of cell phones and social media, distributing photos of such activities has become easier and easier, making individuals averse to participating.
Today, the legacy of the Nude Olympics lives on through alumni sharing their stories from the event over beers and laughter at Reunions, as the curious undergraduates working at tents and pouring their drinks listen in. Although some campus traditions have stood the test of time, others, from the Nude Olympics to the annual theft of the Nassau Hall clapper, have faded to relics.
Miller looks back on the first Nude Olympics as a “college party night, one of those things that happens in one’s life.”
“Maybe they’re not the most proud events you’ve ever had, but they certainly make a good story,” he said.
Gia Musselwhite is an assistant Features editor for the ‘Prince.’
Paige Cromley is a head Features editor for the ‘Prince.’
Please send any corrections to corrections[at]dailyprincetonian.com.
The ‘Prince’ sports editors reflect on their March Madness brackets following the conclusion of both tournaments.
This week in By The Numbers, the women’s lacrosse continue their winning ways and a record on the outdoor track. Amid these accomplishments, the Tigers won all their games at home and almost won half of their road games.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline, the dean of undergraduate students, and the Residential College Disciplinary Board reported 378 infractions.
In its newly released statistics after two years of missing data, the Honor Committee reported 51 violations from 2019–2024, nearly half involving unauthorized materials like generative AI. In 2023–2024 alone, the Committee on Discipline handled 378 cases.The Daily Princetonian, originally known as The Princetonian and nicknamed the 'Prince', is the independent daily student newspaper of Princeton University. The newspaper is owned by The Daily Princetonian Publishing Co. and boasts a circulation of 2,000 in print and around 30,000 daily online hits as of 2021. Managed by approximately 200 undergraduate students, the newspaper covers a range of sections, including news, sports, and opinions.
Throughout its history, The Daily Princetonian has evolved in frequency, editorial focus, and format. In the 20th century, it covered significant events such as Woodrow Wilson's tenure at Princeton and presidency, World War II, and student activism in the 1960s. In the 21st century, the newspaper faced controversy in 2007 for a fictitious article, and its archives were digitized in 2012. Currently, it operates with a digital daily and weekly print publication format. The newspaper is financially independent, with an annual budget exceeding $70,000, and its editorial team is led by the editor-in-chief Miriam Waldvogel as of December 2024.
Notable alumni include Woodrow Wilson, the 28th U.S. president, Supreme Court justices, U.S. ambassadors, and journalists at various media outlets. The paper has received accolades such as a Silver Crown at the Columbia Scholastic Press Association Awards in 2012 and a finalist position for the Associated College Press Online National Pacemaker Award in 2014.

History
19th century
The Prince is the second oldest daily college newspaper in the United States.
The newspaper was founded on June 14, 1876 as a biweekly publication and initially named The Princetonian. As the college grew, the newspaper grew too. In 1883, it became a weekly. In 1885, it increased its publication schedule to three-times weekly. In 1892, its name was changed to The Daily Princetonian, its current name, and its publication schedule was increased to five afternoons a week. In 1895, its publication was increased again to six mornings a week. Early issues of the Prince called for unproctored examinations, a policy introduced with the implementation of the honor code system at the college in 1893. Another issue published a telegraphic report of a Princeton Tigers baseball game, one of the first times a college used a telegraph in its coverage.

20th century
In the early 20th century, prior to World War I, the newspaper experienced improvements in its coverage and editorial policy. Woodrow Wilson was covered extensively, first as president of Princeton University from 1902 to 1910 and then, after winning the 1912 presidential election, as the 28th U.S. president from 1913 to 1921. In 1910, it incorporated Associated Press dispatches. It advocated for the abolition of mandatory chapel attendance, supported women's suffrage, and reinforced the ongoing revolt against the campus eating clubs. The 1920s saw the paper become more light-hearted, with the introduction of popular humorous columns, a weekly photograph supplement, and annual pieces like an April Fool's story.
During the 1930s, the newspaper took on a more serious role, partnering with The Harvard Crimson to persuade students to advocate against prohibition. It covered the escalating world tension that ultimately led to World War II, and published columns both for and against the United States entering the war. In February 1943, after the U.S. entered World War II, publication of the newspaper was suspended in February 1943 until the conclusion of the war in 1945. After World War II, the Prince covered the death of Albert Einstein, the election of Robert Goheen a mere three hours after he was elected at a Princeton University faculty meeting, and other topics regarding Princeton University's administration and athletic program. A common topic for news and editorials were eating clubs elections and debates over their influence on student social life.
In the 1960s, the Prince published articles on the assassination of John F. Kennedy in November 1963, and the subsequent week-long cancellation of university events. Five years later, in 1968, the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. resulted in the publication of letters, editorials, and articles and columns on his influence and student involvement in the civil rights movement. The newspaper continued as a progressive force, calling for coeducation and requesting increased resources targeted at minority enrollment. The Prince played a role in student activism opposing the Vietnam War, organizing events and playing a role in organizing a two-week recess so students could campaign for in the 1968 presidential election. In 1976, the newspaper celebrated the 100th anniversary of its founding with a seminar and two-day symposium.

21st century
In January 2007, the Prince caused controversy when it published a fictitious article in its joke issue, which referenced a lawsuit by Jian Li, who sued Princeton alleging that he was denied admission for being Asian. It received complaints for its purposeful use of broken English and offensive stereotypes towards Asian-Americans. The Prince issued a statement concerning its motivations and expectations for the piece, stating that it did not mean to be offensive but rather satirical.
The paper's archives were digitized in 2012 and were named in honor of a long-time employee, Larry DuPraz. In 2021, the paper began publishing digital articles daily and print articles weekly.

Organization
The Prince is owned by The Daily Princetonian Publishing Co., which is controlled by a board of trustees of mostly former Princeton editors and staffers. The organization is a registered nonprofit, and the organization and newspaper are independent from the university.
The newspaper is produced and managed by a staff of around 200 undergraduate students and has an annual budget of more than $70,000. Its headquarters is located at 48 University Place on Princeton University's campus. The Prince has a daily print circulation of 2,000, and its website receives roughly 30,000 daily hits.
The newspaper is managed by an editor-in-chief and a business manager, and its staff is grouped into various sections, like news, sports, opinions, and more.
In 1974, the Prince elected its first woman business manager, Judy E. Piper; in 1978, it elected its first woman editor, Anne C. Mackay-Smith. The current editor-in-chief is Miriam Waldvogel, who was elected in December 2024.

Notable alumni and awards
Many columnists and editors for the Prince have gone on to hold prominent positions in both government, journalism, and more. Alumni include President of the United States Woodrow Wilson, Supreme Court Justices John M. Harlan and Elena Kagan, Governor of Illinois Adlai Stevenson, first Secretary of Defense James Forrestal, Secretary of the Air Force James H. Douglas, Jr., and U.S. ambassadors Livingston T. Merchant, Jacob D. Beam, Shelby C. Davis, Robert H. McBride, and William H. Atwood, among others. Philanthropist John D. Rockefeller III served on the paper's business board during his time at Princeton.
Notable journalists and writers include Pulitzer Prize winners Barton Gellman, Mark Stevens, Annalyn Swan, Richard Kluger, and Robert Caro. Others include The Washington Post writers Joel Achenbach and Catherine Rampell; The New York Times writers R.W. Apple, Jr., Bosley Crowther, and John B. Oakes; Hamilton Fish Armstrong of Foreign Policy, Kate Betts of Harper's Bazaar, Frank Deford of Sports Illustrated, William Greider of Rolling Stone, John Stossel of ABC News, and more.
Awards won by the Prince include a Silver Crown in the college newspaper category from the Columbia Scholastic Press Association in 2012 and becoming a 2014 finalist for the Associated College Press Online National Pacemaker Award.

References
Notes
Bibliography
Schmitt, Judy Piper, ed. (1977). The Prince Remembers: One Hundred Years of The Daily Princetonian. Princeton, N.J.: Daily Princetonian Publishing Co. OCLC 21486521.
Leitch, Alexander (1978). A Princeton Companion. Princeton: Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0-691-04654-9. JSTOR j.ctt13x0zx2.

Further reading
The Orange & Black in Black & White: A Century of Princeton through the Eyes of the Daily Princetonian. Princeton, N.J.: Daily Princetonian Publishing Co. 1992. OCLC 25025451.

External links
Official website
The Prince is the second oldest daily college newspaper in the United States.
The newspaper was founded on June 14, 1876 as a biweekly publication and initially named The Princetonian. As the college grew, the newspaper grew too. In 1883, it became a weekly. In 1885, it increased its publication schedule to three-times weekly. In 1892, its name was changed to The Daily Princetonian, its current name, and its publication schedule was increased to five afternoons a week. In 1895, its publication was increased again to six mornings a week. Early issues of the Prince called for unproctored examinations, a policy introduced with the implementation of the honor code system at the college in 1893. Another issue published a telegraphic report of a Princeton Tigers baseball game, one of the first times a college used a telegraph in its coverage.
In the early 20th century, prior to World War I, the newspaper experienced improvements in its coverage and editorial policy. Woodrow Wilson was covered extensively, first as president of Princeton University from 1902 to 1910 and then, after winning the 1912 presidential election, as the 28th U.S. president from 1913 to 1921. In 1910, it incorporated Associated Press dispatches. It advocated for the abolition of mandatory chapel attendance, supported women's suffrage, and reinforced the ongoing revolt against the campus eating clubs. The 1920s saw the paper become more light-hearted, with the introduction of popular humorous columns, a weekly photograph supplement, and annual pieces like an April Fool's story.
During the 1930s, the newspaper took on a more serious role, partnering with The Harvard Crimson to persuade students to advocate against prohibition. It covered the escalating world tension that ultimately led to World War II, and published columns both for and against the United States entering the war. In February 1943, after the U.S. entered World War II, publication of the newspaper was suspended in February 1943 until the conclusion of the war in 1945. After World War II, the Prince covered the death of Albert Einstein, the election of Robert Goheen a mere three hours after he was elected at a Princeton University faculty meeting, and other topics regarding Princeton University's administration and athletic program. A common topic for news and editorials were eating clubs elections and debates over their influence on student social life.
In the 1960s, the Prince published articles on the assassination of John F. Kennedy in November 1963, and the subsequent week-long cancellation of university events. Five years later, in 1968, the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. resulted in the publication of letters, editorials, and articles and columns on his influence and student involvement in the civil rights movement. The newspaper continued as a progressive force, calling for coeducation and requesting increased resources targeted at minority enrollment. The Prince played a role in student activism opposing the Vietnam War, organizing events and playing a role in organizing a two-week recess so students could campaign for in the 1968 presidential election. In 1976, the newspaper celebrated the 100th anniversary of its founding with a seminar and two-day symposium.
In January 2007, the Prince caused controversy when it published a fictitious article in its joke issue, which referenced a lawsuit by Jian Li, who sued Princeton alleging that he was denied admission for being Asian. It received complaints for its purposeful use of broken English and offensive stereotypes towards Asian-Americans. The Prince issued a statement concerning its motivations and expectations for the piece, stating that it did not mean to be offensive but rather satirical.
The paper's archives were digitized in 2012 and were named in honor of a long-time employee, Larry DuPraz. In 2021, the paper began publishing digital articles daily and print articles weekly.
The Prince is owned by The Daily Princetonian Publishing Co., which is controlled by a board of trustees of mostly former Princeton editors and staffers. The organization is a registered nonprofit, and the organization and newspaper are independent from the university.
The newspaper is produced and managed by a staff of around 200 undergraduate students and has an annual budget of more than $70,000. Its headquarters is located at 48 University Place on Princeton University's campus. The Prince has a daily print circulation of 2,000, and its website receives roughly 30,000 daily hits.
The newspaper is managed by an editor-in-chief and a business manager, and its staff is grouped into various sections, like news, sports, opinions, and more.
In 1974, the Prince elected its first woman business manager, Judy E. Piper; in 1978, it elected its first woman editor, Anne C. Mackay-Smith. The current editor-in-chief is Miriam Waldvogel, who was elected in December 2024.
Many columnists and editors for the Prince have gone on to hold prominent positions in both government, journalism, and more. Alumni include President of the United States Woodrow Wilson, Supreme Court Justices John M. Harlan and Elena Kagan, Governor of Illinois Adlai Stevenson, first Secretary of Defense James Forrestal, Secretary of the Air Force James H. Douglas, Jr., and U.S. ambassadors Livingston T. Merchant, Jacob D. Beam, Shelby C. Davis, Robert H. McBride, and William H. Atwood, among others. Philanthropist John D. Rockefeller III served on the paper's business board during his time at Princeton.
Notable journalists and writers include Pulitzer Prize winners Barton Gellman, Mark Stevens, Annalyn Swan, Richard Kluger, and Robert Caro. Others include The Washington Post writers Joel Achenbach and Catherine Rampell; The New York Times writers R.W. Apple, Jr., Bosley Crowther, and John B. Oakes; Hamilton Fish Armstrong of Foreign Policy, Kate Betts of Harper's Bazaar, Frank Deford of Sports Illustrated, William Greider of Rolling Stone, John Stossel of ABC News, and more.
Awards won by the Prince include a Silver Crown in the college newspaper category from the Columbia Scholastic Press Association in 2012 and becoming a 2014 finalist for the Associated College Press Online National Pacemaker Award.
Schmitt, Judy Piper, ed. (1977). The Prince Remembers: One Hundred Years of The Daily Princetonian. Princeton, N.J.: Daily Princetonian Publishing Co. OCLC 21486521.
Leitch, Alexander (1978). A Princeton Companion. Princeton: Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0-691-04654-9. JSTOR j.ctt13x0zx2.
The Orange & Black in Black & White: A Century of Princeton through the Eyes of the Daily Princetonian. Princeton, N.J.: Daily Princetonian Publishing Co. 1992. OCLC 25025451.
Official websiteLake Carnegie is a reservoir that straddles the borders of the towns of Princeton, West Windsor, Plainsboro and South Brunswick in Mercer and Middlesex counties in central New Jersey. The lake was created by construction of a dam along the Millstone River, though the lower portion of the lake actually follows the valley of its largest tributary, the Stony Brook. The Delaware and Raritan Canal and its associated tow path are situated along the eastern shore of the lake. Noted businessman and philanthropist Andrew Carnegie donated money for the construction of the lake, which was donated to Princeton University. In 1990, the Lake Carnegie Historic District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
The lake, which is privately owned, is used by the university's rowing team, and is home to the US Olympic rowing team. It is, however, available for public use for activities such as ice skating, fishing, and picnicking. Fish species include largemouth bass, carp, pickerel, crappie, channel catfish and occasionally a few rainbow and brown trout that make their way into Carnegie Lake from Stony Brook. Years of pollution have led to a dangerous decrease in the lake's safety levels. Efforts to improve the water quality of Carnegie Lake are ongoing.
An aerial view of this lake appears in the opening title sequence of the drama series House M.D.

History
Prior to the construction of the lake, Princeton's varsity crew rowed on the narrow Delaware and Raritan Canal, sharing the busy waterway with commercial shipping. The team had discussed their desire to construct a lake in Princeton, but no plans were ever developed. In 1902, one of the team's former members (Howard Russell Butler, class of 1876) was asked to paint a portrait of noted philanthropist Andrew Carnegie.
While sitting for Butler, Carnegie discussed the many lochs he had built in his native Scotland. Butler relayed the plans he and his teammates had discussed previously to Carnegie, who took an immediate interest in the project. He asked Butler to investigate the potential cost and feasibility of constructing such a lake in Princeton. After working with a New York engineering company, Butler informed Carnegie that the estimated construction costs would be US$118,000.
Carnegie visited the university campus to view the construction site, and soon after authorized Butler to begin construction.  In 1903, a group of Princeton alumni began purchasing farmland that occupied areas of the projected basin. They, in turn, sold this land to Carnegie.  This was done in order to avoid arousing the suspicions of local residents, and to allow Carnegie to purchase the land for the lowest possible price. By 1905, the needed land was purchased and the work of clearing the area and constructing the bridges and dam began.
Carnegie attended the official opening ceremony on December 5, 1906, arriving by train with dozens of friends. He was met by a group including university president Woodrow Wilson. Carnegie and Wilson led an academic procession into Alexander Hall, where Carnegie was greeted enthusiastically by attending students (who had been given the day off). At one point, a group of students began to sing:

Carnegie, Carnegie
He is giving us a lake
You can hear the breakers break;
Carnegie, Carnegie
Andy, Andy, you're a dandy

Carnegie.
Carnegie returned to Princeton the following spring to attend the lake's first regatta. Wilson attempted to secure a second donation from Carnegie, who answered, "I have already given you a lake." Wilson's reported reply was, "We needed bread and you gave us cake."
Albert Einstein sailed often on Lake Carnegie during his years in Princeton which began in 1933.

Environmental problems
Due to its initially shallow depth, flooding and siltation (carried by Stony Brook) became problems for the area surrounding Carnegie Lake. Another problem was the rapid deposit of sewage carried by the Millstone River from nearby towns, where expansion of treatment facilities had not kept pace with rapid population growth. The lake has been dredged three times since its opening—first in 1927, in the late 1930s, and most recently in 1971. The 1971 dredging gave the lake a uniform depth of nine feet at a distance of 35 feet from the shoreline.
In its 2002 report on water quality, the United States Environmental Protection Agency rated Lake Carnegie as "impaired." This status indicates that the lake cannot support one or more of its designated uses. The sources of this nonpoint source pollution are varied—litter, chemicals (fertilizers and pesticides), automotive waste (oil and gas), and goose droppings have all contributed to the decline in water quality. Unsafe levels of mercury in the lake have led to an advisory on fish consumption.
A number of local volunteer groups have undertaken efforts to improve the quality of water in Lake Carnegie and surrounding waterways. These efforts include litter removal, water sample testing, and educational programs.

Gallery
References
External links

Video profile of the US Olympic rowing team's base in Princeton and on Lake Carnegie
Prior to the construction of the lake, Princeton's varsity crew rowed on the narrow Delaware and Raritan Canal, sharing the busy waterway with commercial shipping. The team had discussed their desire to construct a lake in Princeton, but no plans were ever developed. In 1902, one of the team's former members (Howard Russell Butler, class of 1876) was asked to paint a portrait of noted philanthropist Andrew Carnegie.
While sitting for Butler, Carnegie discussed the many lochs he had built in his native Scotland. Butler relayed the plans he and his teammates had discussed previously to Carnegie, who took an immediate interest in the project. He asked Butler to investigate the potential cost and feasibility of constructing such a lake in Princeton. After working with a New York engineering company, Butler informed Carnegie that the estimated construction costs would be US$118,000.
Carnegie visited the university campus to view the construction site, and soon after authorized Butler to begin construction.  In 1903, a group of Princeton alumni began purchasing farmland that occupied areas of the projected basin. They, in turn, sold this land to Carnegie.  This was done in order to avoid arousing the suspicions of local residents, and to allow Carnegie to purchase the land for the lowest possible price. By 1905, the needed land was purchased and the work of clearing the area and constructing the bridges and dam began.
Carnegie attended the official opening ceremony on December 5, 1906, arriving by train with dozens of friends. He was met by a group including university president Woodrow Wilson. Carnegie and Wilson led an academic procession into Alexander Hall, where Carnegie was greeted enthusiastically by attending students (who had been given the day off). At one point, a group of students began to sing:

Carnegie, Carnegie
He is giving us a lake
You can hear the breakers break;
Carnegie, Carnegie
Andy, Andy, you're a dandy

Carnegie.
Carnegie returned to Princeton the following spring to attend the lake's first regatta. Wilson attempted to secure a second donation from Carnegie, who answered, "I have already given you a lake." Wilson's reported reply was, "We needed bread and you gave us cake."
Albert Einstein sailed often on Lake Carnegie during his years in Princeton which began in 1933.
Due to its initially shallow depth, flooding and siltation (carried by Stony Brook) became problems for the area surrounding Carnegie Lake. Another problem was the rapid deposit of sewage carried by the Millstone River from nearby towns, where expansion of treatment facilities had not kept pace with rapid population growth. The lake has been dredged three times since its opening—first in 1927, in the late 1930s, and most recently in 1971. The 1971 dredging gave the lake a uniform depth of nine feet at a distance of 35 feet from the shoreline.
In its 2002 report on water quality, the United States Environmental Protection Agency rated Lake Carnegie as "impaired." This status indicates that the lake cannot support one or more of its designated uses. The sources of this nonpoint source pollution are varied—litter, chemicals (fertilizers and pesticides), automotive waste (oil and gas), and goose droppings have all contributed to the decline in water quality. Unsafe levels of mercury in the lake have led to an advisory on fish consumption.
A number of local volunteer groups have undertaken efforts to improve the quality of water in Lake Carnegie and surrounding waterways. These efforts include litter removal, water sample testing, and educational programs.

Video profile of the US Olympic rowing team's base in Princeton and on Lake CarnegieThe Princeton Triangle Club is a theater troupe at Princeton University. Founded in 1891, it is one of the oldest collegiate theater troupes in the United States.  Triangle 
premieres an original student-written musical every year, and then takes that show on a national tour. The club is known for its signature kickline; historically performed by the men of the ensemble in drag, the kickline has recently been performed by a co-ed cast.
The troupe presents several shows throughout the year, beginning in September with the "Frosh Week Show." In the autumn it premieres the year's new Triangle Show, an original student-written musical comedy, professionally directed and choreographed and performed in McCarter Theatre;  this Triangle Show goes on a national tour in January.  In spring, the Club showcases the new writers' material in a smaller campus venue.  And during reunions after the end of the spring semester, the year's Triangle Show plays its final performances at McCarter.
Among the club's notable alumni are F. Scott Fitzgerald, Booth Tarkington, Russel Wright, Joshua Logan, Brooks Bowman, Jimmy Stewart, Charles Arnt, José Ferrer, Wayne Rogers, Clark Gesner, Jeff Moss, David E. Kelley, Nicholas Hammond, Zachary Pincus-Roth, and Brooke Shields.

History
The history of the Princeton Triangle Club reflects many major social, cultural, economic, political, literary and theatrical trends in the United States during the late 19th and 20th centuries. For most of its history, the club has produced student writing performed by students. Productions are known for blending topical humor with collegiate irreverence; the kickline has become standard.

Beginnings
The tradition started with a production by a group called the Princeton College Dramatic Association in 1883. In keeping with the practice of all-male institutions at the time, women's roles were played by men. Entr'acte music, provided by the Instrumental or Banjo Clubs, were often popular dance tunes or excerpts from operas. The early theatricals were fundraisers for financially struggling athletic associations.
In 1891 the Dramatic Association joined forces with the University Glee Club to present Po-ca-hon-tas, the first show in the Triangle tradition of musicals written and produced by students. The reworked John Brougham play was performed both on campus and in Trenton. But the faculty vetoed a proposed New York performance. Over the years, students and administrators would often be at odds over theatrical activities. Nevertheless, the Association visited Trenton once again the following year with Katharine, a Shakespearean spoof marking the first appearance of Booth Tarkington 1893 in the Triangle records.
The 1893 production, The Honorable Julius Caesar, was again a reworking of Shakespeare. Tarkington, a senior and president of the Dramatic Association, was both co-author of the book and acted in the role of Cassius. The show was repeated the following year with several significant changes. Most importantly, the Princeton University Dramatic Association had been renamed the Triangle Club of Princeton.

Early growth
Financial problems caused Club members to curtail expenses in 1895. Neither the February production, Who's Who, nor the May offering, Snowball, were written by students, and both had relatively small casts. The following year the Club turned to a recent graduate, Post Wheeler '91, in hopes that his magic touch as co-author of The Honorable Julius Caesar could be repeated, and they were pleased with the result. The Mummy (1895–96) was also notable as the first production in Triangle's new home, the Casino, located on the lower campus near the present-day McCarter Theatre site. Yet another innovation was attempted in 1897. A Tiger Lily, the first Triangle show to be based on Princeton student life, was part of a double bill with Lend Me Five Shillings, a British farce. Since neither show was a great success, the Club returned to the tried and true in 1898 with a revival of Po-ca-hon-tas. The Privateer, presented in 1899, was originally entitled The Captain's Kidd Sister, but the name was changed because the University of Pennsylvania's Mask and Wig Club had already produced a show about Captain Kidd. The "Privateer March" was the first commercially published Triangle song.

Traditions begin
In 1901, with The King of Pomeru, Triangle ventured for the first time to New York, and the next year the club ventured as far as Pittsburgh. After the 1901 New York performance, Franklin B. Morse 1895 proposed a meeting to organize Triangle alumni, who he believed could help promote the club, build its reputation, arrange the annual tour, collect materials and memorabilia, and generally socialize among themselves. In June of that year, thirty-seven alumni met in Princeton, and the Triangle Board of Trustees was established.
After 1900, the Triangle became increasingly established. Printed copies of the scripts began appearing (the first was The Man From Where, performed 1903–04). Performing off campus and on became the norm, which led faculty to vett texts and performances were vetted before the students left campus with their show. Jenny Davidson Hibben, the wife of Princeton President John Grier Hibben, cut off-color passages or topics she considered morally inappropriate. She was a practicing Presbyterian.
In 1907, the first kickline was performed. It was part of The Mummy Monarch, but soon became a standard element of Triangle shows.

Budding fame and higher standards
By 1910 the tour had extended as far west as Chicago and St. Louis; elaborate social functions were becoming part of the annual trek. With Once in a Hundred Years (1912–13), Triangle moved its tour to the Christmas season, again traveling as far west as St. Louis. The following year, President Wilson and the First Lady attended The Pursuit of Priscilla’s Washington matinee performance; the First Family then hosted a reception for Triangle at the White House.
The Evil Eye (1915-16) had a distinguished pair of neophyte authors: Edmund Wilson '16 wrote the book, and F. Scott Fitzgerald '17 was responsible for the lyrics. Although he was never a cast member in a Triangle production, Fitzgerald wrote three shows for the Club between 1914 and 1917. The club had been criticized in previous years by Drama professor  Donald Clive Stuart who asserted, on the front page of the Princeton University newspaper, that the plays were "too burlesque" and lacked novelty, especially when compared to theatrical culture at other Ivy League schools.
During 1917–18, a four man Triangle troupe toured Europe to entertain the soldiers stationed there for World War I. After the year hiatus, the club became active again with a revival of The Honorable Julius Caesar. The first post-war tour occurred when The Isle of Surprise was taken on the road during Christmas break of 1919. The Christmas tour reached as far as Nashville, Tennessee in 1922; the club presented a musical comedy called Espanola at Nashville's Orpheum Theater.
In the spring of 1922, Triangle staged George Bernard Shaw's The Devil's Disciple. This production marked a milepost in the Club's history, for its three female roles were actually played by women. Sets for this production were designed and painted by Russel Wright during his freshman year, marking one of the few times that a freshman was ever allowed to join Triangle.

Professionalization and emerging stars
During the early 1920s, New York performances began to be booked at the Metropolitan Opera House, although initially there was some concern whether they could fill such a large theatre and whether the men's voices would be strong enough. Late in 1923, there were negotiations concerning a possible radio broadcast, and in the same year Triangle's music publisher, J. Church Co., corresponded with the Victor Talking Machine Co. about a trial recording. But the major event during this decade was the planning and construction of McCarter Theatre for the Triangle Club. The completed theatre opened on February 21, 1930 with a performance of The Golden Dog. McCarter replaced the long-controversial Casino, which burned on January 8, 1924.
Here began the Golden Period for which the Triangle Club became famous, in terms of its eventual contribution of outstanding talent to the Broadway theatre and Hollywood. Within a few years the Club would send forth into these professional realms Erik Barnouw '29; C. Norris Houghton, Joshua Logan, and Myron McCormick, all Class of 1931; James Stewart '32; José Ferrer '33; and Nick Foran '34.
The 1935 show, Stags at Bay, featured East of the Sun (and West of the Moon), written by Brooks Bowman, which would become the most popular and longest-lasting national hit ever to come out of the Triangle Club. Recorded by Frank Sinatra and Louis Armstrong, among many others, East of the Sun still provides the club with royalties. Other songs from the same show, by Bowman, included "Love and Dime" and "Will Love Find a Way?"

Difficulties in the Depression years
With The Tiger Smiles (1930–31), Triangle writers returned to a Princeton town and gown setting for the first time since When Congress Came to Princeton (1908–09). The production was well received, but the club was already beginning to feel the effects of the Great Depression. In October 1930, the Program Manager reported, "Due to the financial depression, the business of getting ads is a rather difficult one just now." By the following year economic conditions had begun to affect the tour. South Orange reported poor ticket sales, and the local alumni chairman was concerned with keeping down the cost of stagehands; in Pittsburgh, a poor house and lack of entertainment were attributed to the weak stock market. When It's the Valet (1932–33) was ready to tour, local alumni groups were either unwilling to sponsor a show or unable to guarantee an adequate sum to cover expenses, let alone show a profit. The club's Graduate Board sought aid from alumni in underwriting the show, but individual contributions were equally difficult to come by.
Throughout the mid-thirties, Triangle continued to tour in spite of the Depression, but there were rumblings of discontent from both the Graduate Board of the Club and the University administration. In a 1934 meeting with President Dodds, the Board indicated concern about the financial condition of McCarter Theatre; Triangle profits were insufficient to keep McCarter operating in the black, a situation that would become increasingly serious as the decade wore on. President Dodds had also heard alumni criticism about poor acting and an apparent lack of coaching in connection with the latest show. Yet he remained confident that Triangle could play an important role on campus. Later that year, Club Manager Stryker Warren '35 received a stern letter from Dean of the College Christian Gauss. Gauss had considered canceling the Christmas tour, first because of financial considerations, and then because of alumni criticism about excessive drinking.
Another change in tradition came during the 1941-42 academic year, when Triangle produced Ask Me Another, its first show in revue format. Then, at a Board meeting in September 1943, Graduate Treasurer B. Franklin Bunn '07 announced that there would be no Triangle Club activities for the duration of the war. The University assumed control of McCarter Theatre during this period, and the building was leased by the military for trainees’ use on campus.

Post-war comeback
In November 1945, the University Committee on Undergraduate Activities issued a report describing Triangle as controversial. The first post-war show, Clear the Track, opened in December 1946 and even managed a seven-city tour. But Triangle was beset with problems the following year for All Rights Reserved (1947–48). The Daily Princetonian reported, "All Rights pretty nearly weren't reserved. A play by the same name had fizzled on Broadway for a bare month, in 1934, and the petulant playwright threatened to sue. Hasty consultation with a Broadway lawyer revealed that the author could not possibly win the suit and that matter was closed." The club resolved tricky labor questions by employing union stagehands and music-hirelings, putting the later to work first in Philadelphia, where they were made to earn their fee by playing with the regular orchestra, and then in Washington, where they provided the intermission music.
Despite ongoing debate in the 1950s about the club's obligations to theatrical professionalism, as well as its questionable effect on the University's reputation, Triangle continued to reach a wider audience through greater media exposure. In 1948, All in Favor was broadcast on WNBC-TV, becoming the first college show to appear on the new medium of television. The entire score of Too Hot for Toddy (1950–51) was recorded, and members of the cast appeared on The Kate Smith Show and Ed Sullivan's The Toast of the Town. Club productions appeared on The Ed Sullivan Show from 1950 to 1957. During the Christmas tour to Cincinnati, the club's appearance was combined with a large-scale alumni gathering.
Finally, in 1953, a memorandum of agreement was drawn up between Princeton University and the Trustees of the Triangle Club abrogating the McCarter agreement of the 1920s. The club had been unable to cover operating expenses and pay the taxes of the Theatre. A full-time general manager was hired for McCarter, and the University, which had been underwriting Triangle's losses, agreed to cancel the club's debts.
A 1955 study stated that there were ninety or more members of the club, and that most of the men participated in the Christmas tour. A third of them said that they had participated in theatrical productions before enrolling at Princeton. Most members were also active in a collegiate sport.

The Lyon era
Spree de Corps (1955–56) marked the debut of Milton Lyon as Triangle director. From 1955 until his death forty years later, Lyon would direct all but a handful of Triangle's original productions.
Student apathy toward extracurricular activities began to affect Triangle toward the end of the 1950s. At a meeting in October 1958, the Board noted a very small turnout for the previous month's auditions. It was decided that more on-campus publicity would help, and as part of this effort Triangle Junior was formed, a group of seven club members who performed favorite Triangle songs at various receptions and functions. Over the following years, this small group would undergo periodic name changes, being known as Triangle Ding! and Triangle Bit Parts before returning to Ding!, as it is called today.
With the gradual elimination of passenger trains in the late 1950s, the club began touring by bus. Early in 1960 there was a proposal to produce a motion picture on the Triangle Club, but a Hollywood writers' strike and possible heavy expenses brought an end to this publicity idea. However, Triangle did embark on its first European tour that summer; the Club performed Breakfast in Bedlam (1959–60) at French and German bases of the American army. Tour de Farce (1961–62) became perhaps the most widely toured show: performances in Pasadena and San Francisco marked the first time the show had been seen live on both coasts, and then troupe members again went to Europe that summer to perform at US Army bases.
Funny Side Up (1963–64) was billed as the 75th anniversary show in spite of the fact that number seventy was Tour de Farce, produced only two years earlier. Funny Side Up did not have a smooth start: the writers were slow to produce material, and the trustees even considered the possibility that there would be no show. Because of the diamond jubilee, twenty-one songs from earlier shows were made a part of the program. The tour of Funny Side Up included several southern stops, and the Birmingham visit became problematic when Triangle was booked into a segregated theatre. After some strongly worded letters from Board members, it was determined that the performance would either be cancelled or moved to a non-segregated house.

Coeducation and other changes
A Different Kick (1968–69) was a Triangle milestone, featuring the first female undergraduate to be cast in a Club show—Sue Jean Lee '70, a junior in the Critical Languages Program. The University's shift to coeducation the next fall would have a profound effect on Triangle. Call a Spade a Shovel (1969–1970) featured six women in a seventeen-member cast. The social and political commentary of the show, most especially its anti-Vietnam War tones, which reflected the views of the Vietnam Veteran who was president and much of the country, unleashed an unprecedented storm of alumni protest and caused a mass audience walk-out at the Grosse Pointe tour performance.
This incident, along with growing budgetary and logistical concerns, caused the Board of Trustees to revise its production schedule. As per the May 1970 Report of the Board's New Directions Committee, there was to be neither a December show nor a Christmas tour; instead, a spring show was promised, to be followed by a short tour. Cracked Ice opened in April 1971, was repeated for alumni in June, but did finally tour the following December. To cut expenses, the cast and crew stayed in private homes rather than hotels, and non-union halls were booked.
The Princeton Triangle Workshop made its debut in November 1972 with a presentation of The Fantasticks at the Princeton Inn Theater; the following March the Workshop produced Transitions in Wilcox Hall. This began a 25-year tradition of smaller fall productions to complement the full-scale, original spring shows. The fall productions of 1978, Happily Ever After, and 1979, String of Pearls, were both written by undergraduates. For the 1981 spring show, Triangle writers returned to the very roots of the club and based their book musical, Bold Type, on Booth Tarkington's novel, A Gentleman from Indiana.
The 1981 tour again returned to California, but with a revue of Triangle favorites, Fool's Gold, rather than the spring show. The following year Triangle hired Miriam Fond, the first female director in the club's history. Triangle finally found a permanent home for its fall productions when The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas opened at the Triangle Broadmead Theatre in November 1984. In the 1980s, the club began to present produce revues of the best of Triangle early in the fall to introduce the freshman class to the organization.

Centennial
The club's centennial was celebrated in 1991 with a series of campus events throughout the year, including the spring show entitled The Older, the Better, a large Firestone Library exhibition of hundreds of items from the Triangle Archives, and a fall reunion weekend of parties and performances. The centennial of 1991 was difficult to reconcile with the fiftieth anniversary show (Once Over Lightly), which had been staged in 1938-39. After much debate, it had been decided that the first original work in the Triangle tradition was Po-ca-hon-tas of 1891, justifying the 1991 centennial.

The second century
In the late 1990s, the production schedule reverted to its original calendar, in which the new Triangle Show premiered at McCarter in the fall of each academic year, followed in winter by that show's tour. This change meant that in 1997-1998 the Club needed to generate two-full length musicals in fifteen months, almost twice the writing load of previous years. In September 1997, Triangle began a writing workshop to coordinate the efforts of the writers; this program was enormously successful, producing In Lava and War in April 1998 and 101 Damnations in November 1998. By the spring of 1999, the corps of 21 writers had been so prolific that Triangle presented an extra, original spring show at Theatre Intime, entitled The Rude Olympics. The 1999–2000 season saw the hundredth anniversary of the kickline in The Blair Arch Project (November 1999), as well as Triangle's return to Theatre Intime in May with The Rude Olympics II: American Booty. Puns of Steel (2000–2001) became the first Club show to record its score on a CD.

Recent developments
The Club's current calendar includes a Frosh Week Show during the first week of classes, the new Triangle Show premiere in November, the national tour in late January, a spring showcase of new writers' material in April/May, and an encore performance in early summer for reunions. The Club continues to receive a high level of regional recognition, with the 2007 Triangle Show A Turnpike Runs Through It appearing in The New York Times.

Notable cast members and contributors (in chronological order)
Booth Tarkington 1893 – * F. Scott Fitzgerald 1917 – Russel Wright '21 and '22 – Charles Arnt '29 – Joshua Logan '31 – James Stewart '32 – José Ferrer '34 – Brooks Bowman '36 – Bo Goldman '53 – Wayne Rogers '56 – Clark Gesner '60 – Jeff Moss '63 – A. Scott Berg '71 – David E. Kelley '79 – Cecil Hoffman '84 – Louis Bayard '85 – Brooke Shields '87 – Ellie Kemper '02 – Michael Yang '04 – Molly Ephraim '08

History of shows
see List of Princeton Triangle Club shows

Recent club presidents
2019 Kirsten Traudt
2020 John McEnany
2021 Regan McCall
2022 Imaan Khasru
2023 Gabriela Veciana
2024 Vera Fei
2025 Vera Fei

Literature
Donald Marsden: The Long Kickline: A History of the Princeton Triangle Club (Princeton: Princeton Triangle Club, 1968).

References
External links
Official website
The history of the Princeton Triangle Club reflects many major social, cultural, economic, political, literary and theatrical trends in the United States during the late 19th and 20th centuries. For most of its history, the club has produced student writing performed by students. Productions are known for blending topical humor with collegiate irreverence; the kickline has become standard.
The tradition started with a production by a group called the Princeton College Dramatic Association in 1883. In keeping with the practice of all-male institutions at the time, women's roles were played by men. Entr'acte music, provided by the Instrumental or Banjo Clubs, were often popular dance tunes or excerpts from operas. The early theatricals were fundraisers for financially struggling athletic associations.
In 1891 the Dramatic Association joined forces with the University Glee Club to present Po-ca-hon-tas, the first show in the Triangle tradition of musicals written and produced by students. The reworked John Brougham play was performed both on campus and in Trenton. But the faculty vetoed a proposed New York performance. Over the years, students and administrators would often be at odds over theatrical activities. Nevertheless, the Association visited Trenton once again the following year with Katharine, a Shakespearean spoof marking the first appearance of Booth Tarkington 1893 in the Triangle records.
The 1893 production, The Honorable Julius Caesar, was again a reworking of Shakespeare. Tarkington, a senior and president of the Dramatic Association, was both co-author of the book and acted in the role of Cassius. The show was repeated the following year with several significant changes. Most importantly, the Princeton University Dramatic Association had been renamed the Triangle Club of Princeton.
Financial problems caused Club members to curtail expenses in 1895. Neither the February production, Who's Who, nor the May offering, Snowball, were written by students, and both had relatively small casts. The following year the Club turned to a recent graduate, Post Wheeler '91, in hopes that his magic touch as co-author of The Honorable Julius Caesar could be repeated, and they were pleased with the result. The Mummy (1895–96) was also notable as the first production in Triangle's new home, the Casino, located on the lower campus near the present-day McCarter Theatre site. Yet another innovation was attempted in 1897. A Tiger Lily, the first Triangle show to be based on Princeton student life, was part of a double bill with Lend Me Five Shillings, a British farce. Since neither show was a great success, the Club returned to the tried and true in 1898 with a revival of Po-ca-hon-tas. The Privateer, presented in 1899, was originally entitled The Captain's Kidd Sister, but the name was changed because the University of Pennsylvania's Mask and Wig Club had already produced a show about Captain Kidd. The "Privateer March" was the first commercially published Triangle song.
In 1901, with The King of Pomeru, Triangle ventured for the first time to New York, and the next year the club ventured as far as Pittsburgh. After the 1901 New York performance, Franklin B. Morse 1895 proposed a meeting to organize Triangle alumni, who he believed could help promote the club, build its reputation, arrange the annual tour, collect materials and memorabilia, and generally socialize among themselves. In June of that year, thirty-seven alumni met in Princeton, and the Triangle Board of Trustees was established.
After 1900, the Triangle became increasingly established. Printed copies of the scripts began appearing (the first was The Man From Where, performed 1903–04). Performing off campus and on became the norm, which led faculty to vett texts and performances were vetted before the students left campus with their show. Jenny Davidson Hibben, the wife of Princeton President John Grier Hibben, cut off-color passages or topics she considered morally inappropriate. She was a practicing Presbyterian.
In 1907, the first kickline was performed. It was part of The Mummy Monarch, but soon became a standard element of Triangle shows.
By 1910 the tour had extended as far west as Chicago and St. Louis; elaborate social functions were becoming part of the annual trek. With Once in a Hundred Years (1912–13), Triangle moved its tour to the Christmas season, again traveling as far west as St. Louis. The following year, President Wilson and the First Lady attended The Pursuit of Priscilla’s Washington matinee performance; the First Family then hosted a reception for Triangle at the White House.
The Evil Eye (1915-16) had a distinguished pair of neophyte authors: Edmund Wilson '16 wrote the book, and F. Scott Fitzgerald '17 was responsible for the lyrics. Although he was never a cast member in a Triangle production, Fitzgerald wrote three shows for the Club between 1914 and 1917. The club had been criticized in previous years by Drama professor  Donald Clive Stuart who asserted, on the front page of the Princeton University newspaper, that the plays were "too burlesque" and lacked novelty, especially when compared to theatrical culture at other Ivy League schools.
During 1917–18, a four man Triangle troupe toured Europe to entertain the soldiers stationed there for World War I. After the year hiatus, the club became active again with a revival of The Honorable Julius Caesar. The first post-war tour occurred when The Isle of Surprise was taken on the road during Christmas break of 1919. The Christmas tour reached as far as Nashville, Tennessee in 1922; the club presented a musical comedy called Espanola at Nashville's Orpheum Theater.
In the spring of 1922, Triangle staged George Bernard Shaw's The Devil's Disciple. This production marked a milepost in the Club's history, for its three female roles were actually played by women. Sets for this production were designed and painted by Russel Wright during his freshman year, marking one of the few times that a freshman was ever allowed to join Triangle.
During the early 1920s, New York performances began to be booked at the Metropolitan Opera House, although initially there was some concern whether they could fill such a large theatre and whether the men's voices would be strong enough. Late in 1923, there were negotiations concerning a possible radio broadcast, and in the same year Triangle's music publisher, J. Church Co., corresponded with the Victor Talking Machine Co. about a trial recording. But the major event during this decade was the planning and construction of McCarter Theatre for the Triangle Club. The completed theatre opened on February 21, 1930 with a performance of The Golden Dog. McCarter replaced the long-controversial Casino, which burned on January 8, 1924.
Here began the Golden Period for which the Triangle Club became famous, in terms of its eventual contribution of outstanding talent to the Broadway theatre and Hollywood. Within a few years the Club would send forth into these professional realms Erik Barnouw '29; C. Norris Houghton, Joshua Logan, and Myron McCormick, all Class of 1931; James Stewart '32; José Ferrer '33; and Nick Foran '34.
The 1935 show, Stags at Bay, featured East of the Sun (and West of the Moon), written by Brooks Bowman, which would become the most popular and longest-lasting national hit ever to come out of the Triangle Club. Recorded by Frank Sinatra and Louis Armstrong, among many others, East of the Sun still provides the club with royalties. Other songs from the same show, by Bowman, included "Love and Dime" and "Will Love Find a Way?"
With The Tiger Smiles (1930–31), Triangle writers returned to a Princeton town and gown setting for the first time since When Congress Came to Princeton (1908–09). The production was well received, but the club was already beginning to feel the effects of the Great Depression. In October 1930, the Program Manager reported, "Due to the financial depression, the business of getting ads is a rather difficult one just now." By the following year economic conditions had begun to affect the tour. South Orange reported poor ticket sales, and the local alumni chairman was concerned with keeping down the cost of stagehands; in Pittsburgh, a poor house and lack of entertainment were attributed to the weak stock market. When It's the Valet (1932–33) was ready to tour, local alumni groups were either unwilling to sponsor a show or unable to guarantee an adequate sum to cover expenses, let alone show a profit. The club's Graduate Board sought aid from alumni in underwriting the show, but individual contributions were equally difficult to come by.
Throughout the mid-thirties, Triangle continued to tour in spite of the Depression, but there were rumblings of discontent from both the Graduate Board of the Club and the University administration. In a 1934 meeting with President Dodds, the Board indicated concern about the financial condition of McCarter Theatre; Triangle profits were insufficient to keep McCarter operating in the black, a situation that would become increasingly serious as the decade wore on. President Dodds had also heard alumni criticism about poor acting and an apparent lack of coaching in connection with the latest show. Yet he remained confident that Triangle could play an important role on campus. Later that year, Club Manager Stryker Warren '35 received a stern letter from Dean of the College Christian Gauss. Gauss had considered canceling the Christmas tour, first because of financial considerations, and then because of alumni criticism about excessive drinking.
Another change in tradition came during the 1941-42 academic year, when Triangle produced Ask Me Another, its first show in revue format. Then, at a Board meeting in September 1943, Graduate Treasurer B. Franklin Bunn '07 announced that there would be no Triangle Club activities for the duration of the war. The University assumed control of McCarter Theatre during this period, and the building was leased by the military for trainees’ use on campus.
In November 1945, the University Committee on Undergraduate Activities issued a report describing Triangle as controversial. The first post-war show, Clear the Track, opened in December 1946 and even managed a seven-city tour. But Triangle was beset with problems the following year for All Rights Reserved (1947–48). The Daily Princetonian reported, "All Rights pretty nearly weren't reserved. A play by the same name had fizzled on Broadway for a bare month, in 1934, and the petulant playwright threatened to sue. Hasty consultation with a Broadway lawyer revealed that the author could not possibly win the suit and that matter was closed." The club resolved tricky labor questions by employing union stagehands and music-hirelings, putting the later to work first in Philadelphia, where they were made to earn their fee by playing with the regular orchestra, and then in Washington, where they provided the intermission music.
Despite ongoing debate in the 1950s about the club's obligations to theatrical professionalism, as well as its questionable effect on the University's reputation, Triangle continued to reach a wider audience through greater media exposure. In 1948, All in Favor was broadcast on WNBC-TV, becoming the first college show to appear on the new medium of television. The entire score of Too Hot for Toddy (1950–51) was recorded, and members of the cast appeared on The Kate Smith Show and Ed Sullivan's The Toast of the Town. Club productions appeared on The Ed Sullivan Show from 1950 to 1957. During the Christmas tour to Cincinnati, the club's appearance was combined with a large-scale alumni gathering.
Finally, in 1953, a memorandum of agreement was drawn up between Princeton University and the Trustees of the Triangle Club abrogating the McCarter agreement of the 1920s. The club had been unable to cover operating expenses and pay the taxes of the Theatre. A full-time general manager was hired for McCarter, and the University, which had been underwriting Triangle's losses, agreed to cancel the club's debts.
A 1955 study stated that there were ninety or more members of the club, and that most of the men participated in the Christmas tour. A third of them said that they had participated in theatrical productions before enrolling at Princeton. Most members were also active in a collegiate sport.
Spree de Corps (1955–56) marked the debut of Milton Lyon as Triangle director. From 1955 until his death forty years later, Lyon would direct all but a handful of Triangle's original productions.
Student apathy toward extracurricular activities began to affect Triangle toward the end of the 1950s. At a meeting in October 1958, the Board noted a very small turnout for the previous month's auditions. It was decided that more on-campus publicity would help, and as part of this effort Triangle Junior was formed, a group of seven club members who performed favorite Triangle songs at various receptions and functions. Over the following years, this small group would undergo periodic name changes, being known as Triangle Ding! and Triangle Bit Parts before returning to Ding!, as it is called today.
With the gradual elimination of passenger trains in the late 1950s, the club began touring by bus. Early in 1960 there was a proposal to produce a motion picture on the Triangle Club, but a Hollywood writers' strike and possible heavy expenses brought an end to this publicity idea. However, Triangle did embark on its first European tour that summer; the Club performed Breakfast in Bedlam (1959–60) at French and German bases of the American army. Tour de Farce (1961–62) became perhaps the most widely toured show: performances in Pasadena and San Francisco marked the first time the show had been seen live on both coasts, and then troupe members again went to Europe that summer to perform at US Army bases.
Funny Side Up (1963–64) was billed as the 75th anniversary show in spite of the fact that number seventy was Tour de Farce, produced only two years earlier. Funny Side Up did not have a smooth start: the writers were slow to produce material, and the trustees even considered the possibility that there would be no show. Because of the diamond jubilee, twenty-one songs from earlier shows were made a part of the program. The tour of Funny Side Up included several southern stops, and the Birmingham visit became problematic when Triangle was booked into a segregated theatre. After some strongly worded letters from Board members, it was determined that the performance would either be cancelled or moved to a non-segregated house.
A Different Kick (1968–69) was a Triangle milestone, featuring the first female undergraduate to be cast in a Club show—Sue Jean Lee '70, a junior in the Critical Languages Program. The University's shift to coeducation the next fall would have a profound effect on Triangle. Call a Spade a Shovel (1969–1970) featured six women in a seventeen-member cast. The social and political commentary of the show, most especially its anti-Vietnam War tones, which reflected the views of the Vietnam Veteran who was president and much of the country, unleashed an unprecedented storm of alumni protest and caused a mass audience walk-out at the Grosse Pointe tour performance.
This incident, along with growing budgetary and logistical concerns, caused the Board of Trustees to revise its production schedule. As per the May 1970 Report of the Board's New Directions Committee, there was to be neither a December show nor a Christmas tour; instead, a spring show was promised, to be followed by a short tour. Cracked Ice opened in April 1971, was repeated for alumni in June, but did finally tour the following December. To cut expenses, the cast and crew stayed in private homes rather than hotels, and non-union halls were booked.
The Princeton Triangle Workshop made its debut in November 1972 with a presentation of The Fantasticks at the Princeton Inn Theater; the following March the Workshop produced Transitions in Wilcox Hall. This began a 25-year tradition of smaller fall productions to complement the full-scale, original spring shows. The fall productions of 1978, Happily Ever After, and 1979, String of Pearls, were both written by undergraduates. For the 1981 spring show, Triangle writers returned to the very roots of the club and based their book musical, Bold Type, on Booth Tarkington's novel, A Gentleman from Indiana.
The 1981 tour again returned to California, but with a revue of Triangle favorites, Fool's Gold, rather than the spring show. The following year Triangle hired Miriam Fond, the first female director in the club's history. Triangle finally found a permanent home for its fall productions when The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas opened at the Triangle Broadmead Theatre in November 1984. In the 1980s, the club began to present produce revues of the best of Triangle early in the fall to introduce the freshman class to the organization.
The club's centennial was celebrated in 1991 with a series of campus events throughout the year, including the spring show entitled The Older, the Better, a large Firestone Library exhibition of hundreds of items from the Triangle Archives, and a fall reunion weekend of parties and performances. The centennial of 1991 was difficult to reconcile with the fiftieth anniversary show (Once Over Lightly), which had been staged in 1938-39. After much debate, it had been decided that the first original work in the Triangle tradition was Po-ca-hon-tas of 1891, justifying the 1991 centennial.
In the late 1990s, the production schedule reverted to its original calendar, in which the new Triangle Show premiered at McCarter in the fall of each academic year, followed in winter by that show's tour. This change meant that in 1997-1998 the Club needed to generate two-full length musicals in fifteen months, almost twice the writing load of previous years. In September 1997, Triangle began a writing workshop to coordinate the efforts of the writers; this program was enormously successful, producing In Lava and War in April 1998 and 101 Damnations in November 1998. By the spring of 1999, the corps of 21 writers had been so prolific that Triangle presented an extra, original spring show at Theatre Intime, entitled The Rude Olympics. The 1999–2000 season saw the hundredth anniversary of the kickline in The Blair Arch Project (November 1999), as well as Triangle's return to Theatre Intime in May with The Rude Olympics II: American Booty. Puns of Steel (2000–2001) became the first Club show to record its score on a CD.
The Club's current calendar includes a Frosh Week Show during the first week of classes, the new Triangle Show premiere in November, the national tour in late January, a spring showcase of new writers' material in April/May, and an encore performance in early summer for reunions. The Club continues to receive a high level of regional recognition, with the 2007 Triangle Show A Turnpike Runs Through It appearing in The New York Times.
Booth Tarkington 1893 – * F. Scott Fitzgerald 1917 – Russel Wright '21 and '22 – Charles Arnt '29 – Joshua Logan '31 – James Stewart '32 – José Ferrer '34 – Brooks Bowman '36 – Bo Goldman '53 – Wayne Rogers '56 – Clark Gesner '60 – Jeff Moss '63 – A. Scott Berg '71 – David E. Kelley '79 – Cecil Hoffman '84 – Louis Bayard '85 – Brooke Shields '87 – Ellie Kemper '02 – Michael Yang '04 – Molly Ephraim '08
see List of Princeton Triangle Club shows
2019 Kirsten Traudt
2020 John McEnany
2021 Regan McCall
2022 Imaan Khasru
2023 Gabriela Veciana
2024 Vera Fei
2025 Vera Fei
Donald Marsden: The Long Kickline: A History of the Princeton Triangle Club (Princeton: Princeton Triangle Club, 1968).
Official websiteChristopher Ludwig Eisgruber (born September 24, 1961) is an American academic and legal scholar and the 20th President of Princeton University, where he is also the Laurance S. Rockefeller Professor of Public Affairs in the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs and the University Center for Human Values. He is also an expert on constitutional law, with an emphasis on separation of church and state and federal judicial appointments.

Education
Eisgruber graduated magna cum laude from Princeton University in 1983, receiving a Bachelor of Arts in physics and was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa. He completed his senior thesis, titled "The global implications of local violations of the energy conditions", under the supervision of Malcolm Perry; his thesis addressed topics in the theory of general relativity. He also studied political theory with Jeffrey K. Tulis and constitutional interpretation with Walter F. Murphy, (the latter would inspire Eisgruber to pursue a career in constitutional law). During his junior year at Princeton, he was a member of the Elm Club. After graduating from Princeton, Eisgruber won a Rhodes Scholarship to attend University College, Oxford, where he earned an MLitt in politics in 1987. Upon his return from Oxford, Eisgruber attended the University of Chicago Law School where he graduated cum laude with a JD in 1988. While in law school, he served as editor-in-chief of the University of Chicago Law Review.

Career
Following his graduation from law school, Eisgruber served as law clerk to Judge Patrick Higginbotham of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit and then Justice John Paul Stevens of the Supreme Court of the United States.
After clerking, Eisgruber taught at New York University Law School for eleven years, from 1990 to 2001, before coming to Princeton. From 2001 to 2004, Eisgruber was the director of Princeton's Program in Law and Public Affairs. He served as the provost of Princeton from 2004 to 2013.
Eisgruber has served on several boards, including the academic advisory board of Coursera, a provider of massive open online courses; the Board of Trustees of the Educational Testing Service; the Board of Trustees of Princeton University Press; the Board of Trustees of ITHAKA and Artstor; and the Board of Directors of Liulishuo. He is also a steering committee member of the American Talent Initiative and a member of the Global University Leaders Forum of the World Economic Forum.
Eisgruber was elected as a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2014.

President of Princeton University
Eisgruber was named as Princeton's 20th president on April 21, 2013, and assumed the office on July 1, 2013. A formal installation ceremony was held on September 22, 2013. 
Eisgruber is the first Princeton president who received his undergraduate degree from the university since Robert Goheen, who served from 1957 to 1972. He is also the first president since Francis Landey Patton, president from 1888 to 1902, who does not hold a PhD.

Personal life
Eisgruber is a native of Lafayette, Indiana. Both his parents were German immigrants who met as graduate students at Purdue University. Eisgruber moved to Oregon with his family in 1973. His father was the dean of the School of Agricultural Sciences at Oregon State University.
Eisgruber captained the 1979 U.S. National High School Chess Champion team in his senior year at Corvallis High School
His wife, Lori A. Martin, is a partner in the New York office of the law firm WilmerHale, and they have a son, Danny, who is a graduate of the University of Chicago.
Eisgruber was raised Catholic and married his wife in an Episcopal church. While helping his son, then in the fourth grade, with a school project, he discovered that his Berlin-born mother, who had arrived in New York as an eight-year-old refugee, was Jewish. Today, Eisgruber identifies as a nontheist Jew. His wife is Episcopalian. In 2009, a Holocaust claims tribunal awarded Eisgruber and his three sisters 162,500 Swiss francs, representing the value of the bank account of their maternal great-grandfather, Salomon Kalisch.
Eisgruber is a lifelong fan of the Chicago Cubs.

Publications
Books
The Next Justice: Repairing the Supreme Court Appointments Process (2007)
Religious Freedom and the Constitution, with Lawrence G. Sager (2007)
Global Justice and the Bulwarks of Localism: Human Rights in Context, ed. with Andras Sajo (2005)
Constitutional Self-Government (2001)
Letters
Letter to U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary

See also
List of law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States (Seat 4)

References
External links
Office of the President of Princeton University
Eisgruber graduated magna cum laude from Princeton University in 1983, receiving a Bachelor of Arts in physics and was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa. He completed his senior thesis, titled "The global implications of local violations of the energy conditions", under the supervision of Malcolm Perry; his thesis addressed topics in the theory of general relativity. He also studied political theory with Jeffrey K. Tulis and constitutional interpretation with Walter F. Murphy, (the latter would inspire Eisgruber to pursue a career in constitutional law). During his junior year at Princeton, he was a member of the Elm Club. After graduating from Princeton, Eisgruber won a Rhodes Scholarship to attend University College, Oxford, where he earned an MLitt in politics in 1987. Upon his return from Oxford, Eisgruber attended the University of Chicago Law School where he graduated cum laude with a JD in 1988. While in law school, he served as editor-in-chief of the University of Chicago Law Review.
Following his graduation from law school, Eisgruber served as law clerk to Judge Patrick Higginbotham of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit and then Justice John Paul Stevens of the Supreme Court of the United States.
After clerking, Eisgruber taught at New York University Law School for eleven years, from 1990 to 2001, before coming to Princeton. From 2001 to 2004, Eisgruber was the director of Princeton's Program in Law and Public Affairs. He served as the provost of Princeton from 2004 to 2013.
Eisgruber has served on several boards, including the academic advisory board of Coursera, a provider of massive open online courses; the Board of Trustees of the Educational Testing Service; the Board of Trustees of Princeton University Press; the Board of Trustees of ITHAKA and Artstor; and the Board of Directors of Liulishuo. He is also a steering committee member of the American Talent Initiative and a member of the Global University Leaders Forum of the World Economic Forum.
Eisgruber was elected as a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2014.
Eisgruber was named as Princeton's 20th president on April 21, 2013, and assumed the office on July 1, 2013. A formal installation ceremony was held on September 22, 2013. 
Eisgruber is the first Princeton president who received his undergraduate degree from the university since Robert Goheen, who served from 1957 to 1972. He is also the first president since Francis Landey Patton, president from 1888 to 1902, who does not hold a PhD.
Eisgruber is a native of Lafayette, Indiana. Both his parents were German immigrants who met as graduate students at Purdue University. Eisgruber moved to Oregon with his family in 1973. His father was the dean of the School of Agricultural Sciences at Oregon State University.
Eisgruber captained the 1979 U.S. National High School Chess Champion team in his senior year at Corvallis High School
His wife, Lori A. Martin, is a partner in the New York office of the law firm WilmerHale, and they have a son, Danny, who is a graduate of the University of Chicago.
Eisgruber was raised Catholic and married his wife in an Episcopal church. While helping his son, then in the fourth grade, with a school project, he discovered that his Berlin-born mother, who had arrived in New York as an eight-year-old refugee, was Jewish. Today, Eisgruber identifies as a nontheist Jew. His wife is Episcopalian. In 2009, a Holocaust claims tribunal awarded Eisgruber and his three sisters 162,500 Swiss francs, representing the value of the bank account of their maternal great-grandfather, Salomon Kalisch.
Eisgruber is a lifelong fan of the Chicago Cubs.
Books
The Next Justice: Repairing the Supreme Court Appointments Process (2007)
Religious Freedom and the Constitution, with Lawrence G. Sager (2007)
Global Justice and the Bulwarks of Localism: Human Rights in Context, ed. with Andras Sajo (2005)
Constitutional Self-Government (2001)
Letters
Letter to U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary
List of law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States (Seat 4)
Office of the President of Princeton UniversityPrinceton University is a private Ivy League research university in Princeton, New Jersey, United States. Founded in 1746 in Elizabeth as the  College of New Jersey, Princeton is the fourth-oldest institution of higher education in the United States and one of the nine colonial colleges chartered before the American Revolution. The institution moved to Newark in 1747 and then to its Mercer County campus in Princeton nine years later. It officially became a university in 1896 and was subsequently renamed Princeton University.
The university is governed by the Trustees of Princeton University and has an endowment of $37.7 billion, the largest endowment per student in the United States. Princeton provides undergraduate and graduate instruction in the humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and engineering to approximately 8,500 students on its main campus spanning 600 acres (2.4 km2) within the borough of Princeton. It offers postgraduate degrees through the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs, the School of Engineering and Applied Science, the School of Architecture and the Bendheim Center for Finance. The university also manages the Department of Energy's Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory and is home to the NOAA's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory. It is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity" and has one of the largest university libraries in the world.
Princeton uses a residential college system and is known for its eating clubs for juniors and seniors. The university has over 500 student organizations. Princeton students embrace a wide variety of traditions from both the past and present. The university is an NCAA Division I school and competes in the Ivy League. The school's athletic team, the Princeton Tigers, has won the most titles in its conference and has sent many students and alumni to the Olympics.
As of October 2021, 75 Nobel laureates, 16 Fields Medalists and 16 Turing Award laureates have been affiliated with Princeton University as alumni, faculty members, or researchers. In addition, Princeton has been associated with 21 National Medal of Science awardees, 5 Abel Prize awardees, 11 National Humanities Medal recipients, 217 Rhodes Scholars, 137 Marshall Scholars, and
62 Gates Cambridge Scholars. Two U.S. presidents, twelve U.S. Supreme Court justices (three of whom serve on the court as of 2010) and numerous living industry and media tycoons and foreign heads of state are all counted among Princeton's alumni body. Princeton has graduated many members of the U.S. Congress and the U.S. Cabinet, including eight secretaries of state, three secretaries of defense and two chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

History
Founding
Princeton University, founded as the College of New Jersey, was shaped much in its formative years by the "Log College", a seminary founded by the Reverend William Tennent at Neshaminy, Pennsylvania, in about 1726. While no legal connection ever existed, many of the pupils and adherents from the Log College would go on to financially support and become substantially involved in the early years of the university. While early writers considered it as the predecessor of the university, the idea has been rebuked by Princeton historians.
The founding of the university itself originated from a split in the Presbyterian church following the Great Awakening. In 1741, New Light Presbyterians were expelled from the Synod of Philadelphia in defense of how the Log College ordained ministers. The four founders of the College of New Jersey, who were New Lights, were either expelled or withdrew from the Synod and devised a plan to establish a new college, for they were disappointed with Harvard and Yale's opposition to the Great Awakening and dissatisfied with the limited instruction at the Log College. They convinced three other Presbyterians to join them and decided on New Jersey as the location for the college, as at the time, there was no institution between Yale College in New Haven, Connecticut, and the College of William & Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia; it was also where some of the founders preached. Although their initial request was rejected by the Anglican governor Lewis Morrison, the acting governor after Morrison's death, John Hamilton, granted a charter for the College of New Jersey on October 22, 1746. In 1747, approximately five months after acquiring the charter, the trustees elected Jonathan Dickinson as president and opened in Elizabeth, New Jersey, where classes were held in Dickinson's parsonage. With its founding, it became the fourth-oldest institution of higher education in the United States, and one of nine colonial colleges chartered before the American Revolution. The founders aimed for the college to have an expansive curriculum to teach people of various professions, not solely ministerial work. Though the school was open to those of any religious denomination, with many of the founders being of Presbyterian faith, the college became the educational and religious capital of Scotch-Irish Presbyterian America.

Colonial and early years
In 1747, following the death of then President Jonathan Dickinson, the college moved from Elizabeth to Newark, New Jersey, as that was where presidential successor Aaron Burr Sr.'s parsonage was located. That same year, Princeton's first charter came under dispute by Anglicans, but on September 14, 1748, the recently appointed governor Jonathan Belcher granted a second charter. Belcher, a Congregationalist, had become alienated from his alma mater, Harvard, and decided to "adopt" the infant college. Belcher would go on to raise funds for the college and donate his 474-volume library, making it one of the largest libraries in the colonies.

In 1756, the college moved again to its present home in Princeton, New Jersey, because Newark was felt to be too close to New York. Princeton was chosen for its location in central New Jersey and by strong recommendation by Belcher. The college's home in Princeton was Nassau Hall, named for the royal William III of England, a member of the House of Orange-Nassau. The trustees of the College of New Jersey initially suggested that Nassau Hall be named in recognition of Belcher because of his interest in the institution; the governor vetoed the request.
Burr, who would die in 1757, devised a curriculum for the school and enlarged the student body. Following the untimely death of Burr and the college's next three presidents, John Witherspoon became president in 1768 and remained in that post until his death in 1794. With his presidency, Witherspoon focused the college on preparing a new generation of both educated clergy and secular leadership in the new American nation. To this end, he tightened academic standards, broadened the curriculum, solicited investment for the college, and grew its size.
A signatory of the Declaration of Independence, Witherspoon and his leadership led the college to becoming influential to the American Revolution. In 1777, the college became the site for the Battle of Princeton. During the battle, British soldiers briefly occupied Nassau Hall before eventually surrendering to American forces led by General George Washington. During the summer and fall of 1783, the Continental Congress and Washington met in Nassau Hall, making Princeton the country's capital for four months; Nassau Hall is where Congress learned of the peace treaty between the colonies and the British. The college did suffer from the revolution, with a depreciated endowment and hefty repair bills for Nassau Hall.

19th century
In 1795, President Samuel Stanhope Smith took office, the first alumnus to become president. Nassau Hall suffered a large fire that destroyed its interior in 1802, which Smith blamed on rebellious students. The college raised funds for reconstruction, as well as the construction of two new buildings. In 1807, a large student riot occurred at Nassau Hall, spurred by underlying distrust of educational reforms by Smith away from the Church. Following Smith's mishandling of the situation, falling enrollment, and faculty resignations, the trustees of the university offered resignation to Smith, which he accepted. In 1812, Ashbel Green was unanimously elected by the trustees of the college to become the eighth president. After the liberal tenure of Smith, Green represented the conservative "Old Side", in which he introduced rigorous disciplinary rules and heavily embraced religion. Even so, believing the college was not religious enough, he took a prominent role in establishing the Princeton Theological Seminary next door. While student riots were a frequent occurrence during Green's tenure, enrollment did increase under his administration.

In 1823, James Carnahan became president, arriving as an unprepared and timid leader. With the college riven by conflicting views between students, faculty, and trustees, and enrollment hitting its lowest in years, Carnahan considered closing the university. Carnahan's successor, John Maclean Jr., who was only a professor at the time, recommended saving the university with the help of alumni; as a result, Princeton's alumni association, led by James Madison, was created and began raising funds. With Carnahan and Maclean, now vice-president, working as partners, enrollment and faculty increased, tensions decreased, and the college campus expanded. Maclean took over the presidency in 1854, and led the university through the American Civil War. When Nassau Hall burned down again in 1855, Maclean raised funds and used the money to rebuild Nassau Hall and run the university on an austerity budget during the war years. With a third of students from the college being from the South, enrollment fell. Once many of the Southerners left, the campus became a sharp proponent for the Union, even bestowing an honorary degree to President Lincoln. James McCosh became the college's president in 1868, and lifted the institution out of a low period that had been brought about by the war. During his two decades of service, he overhauled the curriculum, oversaw an expansion of inquiry into the sciences, recruited distinguished faculty, and supervised the addition of a number of buildings in the High Victorian Gothic style to the campus. McCosh's tenure also saw the creation and rise of many extracurricular activities, like the Princeton Glee Club, the Triangle Club, the first intercollegiate football team, and the first permanent eating club, as well as the elimination of fraternities and sororities. In 1879, Princeton conferred its first doctorates on James F. Williamson and William Libby, both members of the Class of 1877.
Francis Patton took the presidency in 1888, and although his election was not met by unanimous enthusiasm, he was well received by undergraduates. Patton's administration was marked by great change, for Princeton's enrollment and faculty had doubled. At the same time, the college underwent large expansion and social life was changing in reflection of the rise in eating clubs and burgeoning interest in athletics. In 1893, the honor system was established, allowing for unproctored exams. In 1896, the college officially became a university, and as a result, it officially changed its name to Princeton University. In 1900, the Graduate School was formally established. Even with such accomplishments, Patton's administration remained lackluster with its administrative structure and towards its educational standards. Due to profile changes in the board of trustees and dissatisfaction with his administration, he was forced to resign in 1902.

20th century
Following Patton's resignation, Woodrow Wilson, an alumnus and popular professor, was elected the 13th president of the university. Noticing falling academic standards, Wilson orchestrated significant changes to the curriculum, where freshman and sophomores followed a unified curriculum while juniors and seniors concentrated study in one discipline. Ambitious seniors were allowed to undertake independent work, which would eventually shape Princeton's emphasis on the practice for the future. Wilson further reformed the educational system by introducing the preceptorial system in 1905, a then-unique concept in the United States that augmented the standard lecture method of teaching with a more personal form in which small groups of students, or precepts, could interact with a single instructor, or preceptor, in their field of interest. The changes brought about many new faculty and cemented Princeton's academics for the first half of the 20th century. Due to the tightening of academic standards, enrollment declined severely until 1907. In 1906, the reservoir Lake Carnegie was created by Andrew Carnegie, and the university officially became nonsectarian. Before leaving office, Wilson strengthened the science program to focus on "pure" research and broke the Presbyterian lock on the board of trustees. However, he did fail in winning support for the permanent location of the Graduate School and the elimination of the eating clubs, which he proposed replacing with quadrangles, a precursor to the residential college system. Wilson also continued to keep Princeton closed off from accepting Black students. When an aspiring Black student wrote a letter to Wilson, he got his secretary to reply telling him to attend a university where he would be more welcome.
John Grier Hibben became president in 1912, and would remain in the post for two decades. On October 2, 1913, the Princeton University Graduate College was dedicated. When the United States entered World War I in 1917, Hibben allocated all available University resources to the government. As a result, military training schools opened on campus and laboratories and other facilities were used for research and operational programs. Overall, more than 6,000 students served in the armed forces, with 151 dying during the war. After the war, enrollment spiked and the trustees established the system of selective admission in 1922. From the 1920s to the 1930s, the student body featured many students from preparatory schools, zero Black students, and dwindling Jewish enrollment because of quotas. Aside from managing Princeton during WWI, Hibben introduced the senior thesis in 1923 as a part of The New Plan of Study. He also brought about great expansion to the university, with the creation of the School of Architecture in 1919, the School of Engineering in 1921, and the School of Public and International Affairs in 1930. By the end of his presidency, the endowment had increased by 374 percent, the total area of the campus doubled, the faculty experienced impressive growth, and the enrollment doubled.
Hibben's successor, Harold Willis Dodds would lead the university through the Great Depression, World War II, and the Korean Conflict. With the Great Depression, many students were forced to withdraw due to financial reasons. At the same time, Princeton's reputation in physics and mathematics surged as many European scientists left for the United States due to uneasy tension caused by Nazi Germany. In 1930, the Institute for Advanced Study was founded to provide a space for the influx of scientists, such as Albert Einstein. Many Princeton scientists would work on the Manhattan Project during the war, including the entire physics department. During World War II, Princeton offered an accelerated program for students to graduate early before entering the armed forces. Student enrollment fluctuated from month to month, and many faculty were forced to teach unfamiliar subjects. Still, Dodds maintained academic standards and would establish a program for servicemen, so they could resume their education once discharged.

1945 to present
The post-war years saw scholars renewing broken bonds through numerous conventions, expansion of the campus, and the introduction of distribution requirements. The period saw the desegregation of Princeton, which was stimulated by changes to the New Jersey constitution. Princeton began undertaking a sharper focus towards research in the years after the war, with the construction of Firestone Library in 1948 and the establishment of the Forrestal Research Center in nearby Plainsboro Township in the 1950s. Government sponsored research increased sharply, particularly in the physics and engineering departments, with much of it occurring at the new Forrestal campus. Though, as the years progressed, scientific research at the Forrestal campus declined, and in 1973, some of the land was converted to commercial and residential spaces.
Robert Goheen would succeed Dodds by unanimous vote and serve as president until 1972. Goheen's presidency was characterized as being more liberal than previous presidents, and his presidency would see a rise in Black applicants, as well as the eventual coeducation of the university in 1969. During this period of rising diversity, the Third World Center (now known as the Carl A. Fields Center) was dedicated in 1971. Goheen also oversaw great expansion for the university, with square footage increasing by 80 percentage.
Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, Princeton experienced unprecedented activism, with most of it centered on the Vietnam War. While Princeton activism initially remained relatively timid compared to other institutions, protests began to grow with the founding of a local chapter of Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) in 1965, which organized many of the later Princeton protests. In 1966, the SDS gained prominence on campus following picketing against a speech by President Lyndon B. Johnson, which gained frontpage coverage by the New York Times. A notable point of contention on campus was the Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA) and would feature multiple protests, some of which required police action. In 1967, SDS members and sympathizers beat the campus R.O.T.C. chapter in a game of touch football. As the years went on, the protests' agenda broadened to investments in South Africa, environmental issues, and women's rights. In response to these broadening protests, the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) was founded to serve as a method for greater student voice in governance. Activism culminated in 1970 with a student, faculty, and staff member strike, so the university could become an "institution against expansion of the war." Princeton's protests would taper off later that year, with The Daily Princetonian saying that, "Princeton 1970–71 was an emotionally burned out university."
In 1982, the residential college system was officially established under Goheen's successor William G. Bowen, who would serve until 1988. During his presidency, Princeton's endowment increased from $625 million to $2 billion, and a major fundraising drive known as "A Campaign for Princeton" was conducted. President Harold T. Shapiro would succeed Bowen and remain president until 2001. Shapiro would continue to increase the endowment, expand academic programs, raise student diversity, and oversee the most renovations in Princeton's history. One of Shapiro's initiatives was the formation of the multidisciplinary Princeton Environmental Institute in 1994, renamed the High Meadows Environmental Institute in 2020. In 2001, Princeton shifted the financial aid policy to a system that replaced all loans with grants. That same year, Princeton elected its first female president, Shirley M. Tilghman. Before retiring in 2012, Tilghman expanded financial aid offerings and conducted several major construction projects like the Lewis Center for the Arts and a sixth residential college. Tilghman also lead initiatives for more global programs, the creation of an office of sustainability, and investments into the sciences.
Princeton's 20th and current president, Christopher Eisgruber, was elected in 2013. In 2017, Princeton University unveiled a large-scale public history and digital humanities investigation into its historical involvement with slavery called the Princeton & Slavery Project. The project saw the publication of hundreds of primary sources, 80 scholarly essays, a scholarly conference, a series of short plays, and an art project. In April 2018, university trustees announced that they would name two public spaces for James Collins Johnson and Betsey Stockton, enslaved people who lived and worked on Princeton's campus and whose stories were publicized by the project. In 2019, large-scale student activism again entered the mainstream concerning the school's implementation of federal Title IX policy relating to campus sexual assault. The activism consisted of sit-ins in response to a student's disciplinary sentence.
In April 2024, students joined other campuses across the United States in protests and establishing encampments against the Gaza war and the alleged genocide of Palestinians in Gaza. The protestors called for divestment from Israel, started a hunger strike and were joined by faculty. The sit-in of Clio Hall led to arrests by police. Activism and protests continued in the new academic year starting September 2024 with administrators facing calls for resignation from faculty.

Coeducation
Princeton explicitly prohibited the admission of women from its founding in 1746 until 1969. Since it lacked an affiliated women's college, it was often referred to as a "monastery", both lovingly and derisively, by members of the Princeton community.
For about a decade, from 1887 to 1897, nearby Evelyn College for Women was largely composed of daughters of professors and sisters of Princeton undergraduates. While no legal connection existed, many Princeton professors taught there and several Princeton administrators, such as Francis Patton, were on its board of trustees. It closed in 1897 following the death of its founder, Joshua McIlvaine.
In 1947, three female members of the library staff enrolled in beginning Russian courses to deal with an increase in Russian literature in the library. In 1961, Princeton admitted its first female graduate student, Sabra Follett Meservey, who would go on to be the first woman to earn a master's degree at Princeton. Meservey was, at the time of her admission, already a member of the faculty at Douglass College within Princeton. The dean of the graduate school issued a statement clarifying that Meservey's admission was an exception, and that "Princeton may permit other women in the future as special cases, but does not plan to make general admissions of women graduate students." The student-run Daily Princetonian ran four articles about Meservey in one issue, including an editorial lamenting the potential "far reaching implications" of Meservey's admission which concluded: "Princeton is unique as an undergraduate men's college and must remain so." Eight more women enrolled the following year in the Graduate School. In 1964, T'sai-ying Cheng became the first woman at Princeton to receive a Ph.D. In 1963, five women came to Princeton for one year to study "critical languages" as undergraduates, but were not candidates for a Princeton degree. Following abortive discussions with Sarah Lawrence College to relocate the women's college to Princeton and merge it with the university in 1967, the administration commissioned a report on admitting women. The final report was issued in January 1969, supporting the idea. That same month, Princeton's trustees voted 24–8 in favor of coeducation and began preparing the institution for the transition. The university finished these plans in April 1969 and announced there would be coeducation in September. Ultimately, 101 female freshman and 70 female transfer students enrolled at Princeton in September 1969. Those admitted were housed in Pyne Hall, a fairly isolated dormitory; a security system was added, although the women deliberately broke it within a day.
In 1971, Mary St. John Douglas and Susan Savage Speers became the first female trustees, and in 1974, quotas for men and women were eliminated. Following a 1979 lawsuit, the eating clubs were required to go coeducational in 1991, after an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court was denied. In 2001, Princeton elected its first female president.

Campus
The main campus consists of more than 200 buildings on 600 acres (2.4 km2) in Princeton, New Jersey. The James Forrestal Campus, a smaller location designed mainly as a research and instruction complex, is split between nearby Plainsboro and South Brunswick. The campuses are situated about one hour from both New York City and Philadelphia on the train. The university also owns more than 520 acres (2.1 km2) of property in West Windsor Township, and is where Princeton is planning to construct a graduate student housing complex, which will be known as "Lake Campus North".
The first building on campus was Nassau Hall, completed in 1756, and situated on the northern edge of the campus facing Nassau Street. The campus expanded steadily around Nassau Hall during the early and middle 19th century. The McCosh presidency (1868–88) saw the construction of a number of buildings in the High Victorian Gothic and Romanesque Revival styles, although many of them are now gone, leaving the remaining few to appear out of place. At the end of the 19th century, much of Princeton's architecture was designed by the Cope and Stewardson firm (led by the same University of Pennsylvania professors of architecture who designed a large part of Washington University in St. Louis and University of Pennsylvania) resulting in the Collegiate Gothic style for which Princeton is known for today. Implemented initially by William Appleton Potter, and later enforced by the university's supervising architect, Ralph Adams Cram, the Collegiate Gothic style remained the standard for all new building on the Princeton campus until 1960. A flurry of construction projects in the 1960s produced a number of new buildings on the south side of the main campus, many of which have been poorly received. Several prominent architects have contributed some more recent additions, including Frank Gehry (Lewis Library), I. M. Pei (Spelman Halls), Demetri Porphyrios (Whitman College, a Collegiate Gothic project), Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown (Frist Campus Center, among several others), Minoru Yamasaki (Robertson Hall), and Rafael Viñoly (Carl Icahn Laboratory).
A group of 20th-century sculptures scattered throughout the campus forms the Putnam Collection of Sculpture. It includes works by Alexander Calder (Five Disks: One Empty), Jacob Epstein (Albert Einstein), Henry Moore (Oval with Points), Isamu Noguchi (White Sun), and Pablo Picasso (Head of a Woman). Richard Serra's The Hedgehog and The Fox is located between Peyton and Fine halls next to Princeton Stadium and the Lewis Library.
At the southern edge of the campus is Lake Carnegie, an artificial lake named for Andrew Carnegie. Carnegie financed the lake's construction in 1906 at the behest of a friend and his brother who were both Princeton alumni. Carnegie hoped the opportunity to take up rowing would inspire Princeton students to forsake football, which he considered "not gentlemanly." The Shea Rowing Center on the lake's shore continues to serve as the headquarters for Princeton rowing.
Princeton's grounds were designed by Beatrix Farrand between 1912 and 1943. Her contributions were most recently recognized with the naming of a courtyard for her. Subsequent changes to the landscape were introduced by Quennell Rothschild & Partners in 2000. In 2005, Michael Van Valkenburgh was hired as the new consulting landscape architect for Princeton's 2016 Campus Plan. Lynden B. Miller was invited to work with him as Princeton's consulting gardening architect, focusing on the 17 gardens that are distributed throughout the campus.

Buildings
Nassau Hall
Nassau Hall is the oldest building on campus. Begun in 1754 and completed in 1756, it was the first seat of the New Jersey Legislature in 1776, was involved in the Battle of Princeton in 1777, and was the seat of the Congress of the Confederation (and thus capitol of the United States) from June 30, 1783, to November 4, 1783. Since 1911, the front entrance has been flanked by two bronze tigers, a gift of the Princeton Class of 1879, which replaced two lions previously given in 1889. Starting in 1922, commencement has been held on the front lawn of Nassau Hall when there is good weather. In 1966, Nassau Hall was added to the National Register of Historic Places. Nowadays, it houses the office of the university president and other administrative offices.
To the south of Nassau Hall lies a courtyard that is known as Cannon Green. Buried in the ground at the center is the "Big Cannon", which was left in Princeton by British troops as they fled following the Battle of Princeton. It remained in Princeton until the War of 1812, when it was taken to New Brunswick. In 1836, the cannon was returned to Princeton and placed at the eastern end of town. Two years later, it was moved to the campus under cover of night by Princeton students, and in 1840, it was buried in its current location. A second "Little Cannon" is buried in the lawn in front of nearby Whig Hall. The cannon, which may also have been captured in the Battle of Princeton, was stolen by students of Rutgers University in 1875. The theft ignited the Rutgers-Princeton Cannon War. A compromise between the presidents of Princeton and Rutgers ended the war and forced the return of the Little Cannon to Princeton. The protruding cannons are occasionally painted scarlet by Rutgers students who continue the traditional dispute.

Art Museum
Though art collection at the university dates back to its very founding, the Princeton University Art Museum was not officially established until 1882 by President McCosh. Its establishment arose from a desire to provide direct access to works of art in a museum for a curriculum in the arts, an education system familiar to many European universities at the time. The museum took on the purposes of providing "exposure to original works of art and to teach the history of art through an encyclopedic collection of world art."
Numbering over 112,000 objects, the collections range from ancient to contemporary art and come from Europe, Asia, Africa, and the Americas. The museum's art is divided into ten extensive curatorial areas. There is a collection of Greek and Roman antiquities, including ceramics, marbles, bronzes, and Roman mosaics from faculty excavations in Antioch, as well as other art from the ancient Egyptian, Byzantium, and Islamic worlds. The non-Islamic coins were catalogued by Dorothy B. Waage. Medieval Europe is represented by sculpture, metalwork, and stained glass. The collection of Western European paintings includes examples from the early Renaissance through the 19th century, with pieces by Monet, Cézanne, and Van Gogh, and features a growing collection of 20th-century and contemporary art, including paintings such as Andy Warhol's Blue Marilyn.
The museum features a collection of Chinese and Japanese art, with holdings in bronzes, tomb figurines, painting, and calligraphy, as well as collections of Korean, Southeast, and Central Asian art. Its collection of pre-Columbian art includes examples of Mayan and Olmec art, and its indigenous art ranges from Chile to Alaska to Greenland. The museum has collections of old master prints and drawings, and it has a comprehensive collection of over 20,000 photographs. Approximately 750 works of African art are represented. The Museum oversees the outside John B. Putnam Jr., Memorial Collection of Sculpture.

University Chapel
The Princeton University Chapel is located on the north side of campus near Nassau Street. It was built between 1924 and 1928 at a cost of $2.3 million, approximately $42.1 million adjusted for inflation in 2020. Ralph Adams Cram, the university's supervising architect, designed the chapel, which he viewed as the crown jewel for the Collegiate Gothic motif he had championed for the campus. At the time of its construction, it was the second largest university chapel in the world, after King's College Chapel, Cambridge. It underwent a two-year, $10 million restoration campaign between 2000 and 2002. The Chapel seats around 2,000 and serves as a site for religious services and local celebrations.
Measured on the exterior, the chapel is 277 feet (84 m) long, 76 feet (23 m) wide at its transepts, and 121 feet (37 m) high. The exterior is Pennsylvania sandstone, trimmed with Indiana limestone, and the interior is made of limestone and Aquia Creek sandstone. The design evokes characteristics of an English church of the Middle Ages. The extensive iconography, in stained glass, stonework, and wood carvings, has the common theme of connecting religion and scholarship.

Sustainability
Published in 2008, the Sustainability Action Plan was the first formal plan for sustainability enacted by the university. It focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, conservation of resources, and research, education, and civic engagement for sustainability through 10 year objectives. Since the 2008 plan, Princeton has aimed at reducing its carbon dioxide emissions to 1990 levels without the purchase of market offsets and predicts to meet the goal by 2026 (the former goal was by 2020 but COVID-19 requirements delayed this). Princeton released its second Sustainability Action Plan in 2019 on Earth Day with its main goal being reducing campus greenhouse gases to net zero by 2046 as well as other objectives building on those in the 2008 plan. In 2021, the university agreed to divest from thermal coal and tar sand segments of the fossil fuel industry and from companies that are involved in climate disinformation after student protest. Princeton is a member of the Ivy Plus Sustainability Consortium, through which it has committed to best-practice sharing and the ongoing exchange of campus sustainability solutions along with other member institutions.
Princeton's Sustainability Action Plan also aims to have zero waste through recycling programs, sustainable purchasing, and behavioral and operational strategies.

Organization and administration
Governance and structure
Princeton's 20th and current president is Christopher Eisgruber, who was appointed by the university's board of trustees in 2013. The board is responsible for the overall direction of the university. It consists of no fewer than 23 and no more than 40 members at any one time, with the president of the university and the governor of New Jersey serving as ex officio members. It approves the operating and capital budgets, supervises the investment of the university's endowment, and oversees campus real estate and long-range physical planning. The trustees also exercise prior review and approval concerning changes in major policies such as those in instructional programs and admission as well as tuition and fees and the hiring of faculty members.
The university is composed of the Undergraduate College, the Graduate School, the School of Architecture, the School of Engineering and Applied Science, and the School of Public and International Affairs. Additionally, the school's Bendheim Center for Finance provides education for the area of money and finance in lieu of a business school. Princeton did host a Princeton Law School for a short period, before eventually closing in 1852 due to poor income. Princeton's lack of other professional schools can be attributed to a university focus on undergraduates.
The university has ties with the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton Theological Seminary, Rutgers University, and the Westminster Choir College of Rider University. Princeton is a member of the Association of American Universities, the Universities Research Association, and the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. The university is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), with its last reaffirmation in 2014.

Finances
Princeton University's endowment of $37 billion (per 2021 figures) was ranked as the fourth largest endowment in the United States, and it had the greatest per-student endowment in the world at over $4.4 million per student. The endowment is sustained through continued donations and is maintained by investment advisers. Princeton's operating budget is over $2 billion per year, with 50% going to academic departments and programs, 33% to administrative and student service departments, 10% to financial aid departments, and 7% to the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory.

Academics
Undergraduate
Princeton follows a liberal arts curriculum, and offers two bachelor's degrees to students: a Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) and a Bachelor of Science in Engineering (B.S.E.). Typically, A.B. students choose a major (called a concentration) at the end of sophomore year, while B.S.E. students declare at the end of their freshman year. Students must complete distribution requirements, departmental requirements, and independent work to graduate with either degree. A.B. students must complete distribution requirements in literature and the arts, science and engineering, social analysis, cultural difference, epistemology and cognition, ethical thought and moral values, historical analysis, and quantitative and computational reasoning; they must also have satisfactory ability in a foreign language. Additionally, they must complete two papers of independent work during their junior year—known as the junior papers—and craft a senior thesis to graduate; both revolve around the concentration they are pursuing. B.S.E. majors complete fewer courses in the humanities and social sciences and instead fulfill requirements in mathematics, physics, chemistry, and computer programming. They likewise must complete independent work, which typically involves a design project or senior thesis, but not the junior papers. A.B. majors must complete 31 courses, whereas B.S.E. majors must complete 36 courses.
Students can choose from either 36 concentrations or create their own. They can also participate in 55 interdisciplinary certificate programs; since Princeton does not offer an academic minor, the certificates effectively serve as one. Course structure is determined by the instructor and department. Classes vary in their format, ranging from small seminars to medium-sized lecture courses to large lecture courses. The latter two typically have precepts, which are extra weekly discussion sessions that are led by either the professor or a graduate student. The average class meeting time is 3–4 hours a week, although this can vary depending on the course. The student to faculty ratio is 5 to 1, and a majority of classes have fewer than 20 students. In the Fiske Guide to Colleges, academic culture is considered as "tight-knit, extremely hardworking, highly cooperative, and supportive."
Undergraduates agree to adhere to an academic integrity policy called the Honor Code. Under the Honor Code, faculty do not proctor examinations; instead, the students proctor one another and must report any suspected violation to an Honor Committee made up of undergraduates. The Committee investigates reported violations and holds a hearing if it is warranted. An acquittal at such a hearing results in the destruction of all records of the hearing; a conviction results in the student's suspension or expulsion. Violations pertaining to all other academic work fall under the jurisdiction of the Faculty-Student Committee on Discipline. Undergraduates are expected to sign a pledge on their written work affirming that they have not plagiarized the work.

Grade deflation policy
The first focus on issues of grade inflation by the Princeton administration began in 1998 when a university report was released showcasing a steady rise in undergraduate grades from 1973 to 1997. Subsequent reports and discussion from the report culminated to when in 2004, Nancy Weiss Malkiel, the dean of the college, implemented a grade deflation policy to address the findings. Malkiel's reason for the policy was that an A was becoming devalued as a larger percentage of the student body received one. Following its introduction, the number of A's and average GPA on campus dropped, although A's and B's were still the most frequent grades awarded. The policy received mixed approval from both faculty and students when first instituted. Criticism for grade deflation continued through the years, with students alleging negative effects like increased competition and lack of willingness to choose challenging classes. Other criticism included job market and graduate school prospects, although Malkiel responded by saying that she sent 3,000 letters to numerous institutions and employers informing them. In 2009, transcripts began including a statement about the policy.
In October 2013, Princeton President Christopher Eisgruber created a faculty committee to review the deflation policy. In August 2014, the committee released a report recommending the removal of the policy and instead develop consistent standards for grading across individual departments. In October 2014, following a faculty vote, the numerical targets were removed in response to the report. In a 2020 analysis of undergraduate grades following the removal of a policy, there were no long-lasting effects, with the percent of students receiving A's higher than in 1998.

Graduate
For the 2019–2020 academic year, the Graduate School enrolled 2,971 students. Approximately 40% of the students were female, 42% were international, and 35% of domestic students were a member of a U.S. minority group. The average time to complete a doctoral degree was 5.7 years. The university awarded 318 Ph.D. degrees and 174 final master's degrees for the 2019–2020 academic year.
The Graduate School offers degrees in 42 academic departments and programs, which span the humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and engineering. Doctoral education is available for all departments while master's degrees are only available in the architecture, engineering, finance, and public policy departments. Doctoral education focuses on original, independent scholarship whereas master's degrees focus more on career preparation in both public life and professional practice. Graduate students can also concentrate in an interdisciplinary program and be granted a certificate. Joint degrees are available for several disciplines, as are dual M.D./Ph.D. or M.P.A./J.D. programs.
Students in the graduate school can participate in regional cross-registration agreements, domestic exchanges with other Ivy League schools and similar institutions, and in international partnerships and exchanges.

Rankings
Princeton is one of the world's most prominent research universities, featured at the top of U.S. News & World Report's national university rankings for the ninth consecutive year in 2024, as well as topping comparable lists by Forbes and The Wall Street Journal.

Research
Princeton is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity." Based on data for the 2020 fiscal year, the university received approximately US$250 million in sponsored research for its main campus, with 81.4% coming from the government, 12.1% from foundations, 5.5% from industry, and 1.0% from private and other. An additional $120 million in sponsored research was for the Plasma Physics Lab; the main campus and the lab combined totaled to $370 million for sponsored research. Based on 2017 data, the university ranked 72nd among 902 institutions for research expenditures.
Based on 2018 data, Princeton's National Academy Membership totaled to 126, ranking 9th in the nation. The university hosts 75 research institutes and centers and two national laboratories. Princeton is a member of the New Jersey Space Grant Consortium.

Library system
The Princeton University Library system houses over 13 million holdings through 11 buildings, including seven million bound volumes, making it one of the largest university libraries in the United States. Built in 1948, the main campus library is Firestone Library and serves as the main repository for the humanities and social sciences. Its collections include the autographed manuscript of F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby and George F. Kennan's Long Telegram. In addition to Firestone library, specialized libraries exist for architecture, art and archaeology, East Asian studies, engineering, music, public and international affairs, public policy and university archives, and the sciences. The library system provides access to subscription-based electronic resources and databases to students.

National laboratories
The Department of Energy's Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL) stemmed from Project Matterhorn, a top secret cold war project created in 1951 aimed at achieving controlled nuclear fusion. Princeton astrophysics professor Lyman Spitzer became the first director of the project and remained director until the lab's declassification in 1961 when it received its current name. Today, it is an institute for fusion energy research and plasma physics research.
Founded in 1955 and located at Princeton's Forrestal Campus since 1968, the NOAA's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory (GFDL) conducts climate research and modeling. Princeton faculty, research scientists, and graduate scientists can participate in research with the lab.

Admissions and financial aid
Admissions
Princeton offers several methods to apply: the Common Application, the Coalition Application, and the QuestBridge Application. Princeton's application requires several writing supplements and submitting a graded written paper.
Princeton's undergraduate program is highly selective, admitting 5.8% of undergraduate applicants in the 2019–2020 admissions cycle (for the Class of 2024). The middle 50% range of SAT scores was 1470–1560, the middle 50% range of the ACT composite score was 33–35, and the average high school GPA was a 3.91. For graduate admissions, in the 2021–2022 academic year, Princeton received 12,553 applications for admission and accepted 1,322 applicants, with a yield rate of 51%.
In the 1950s, Princeton used an ABC system to function as a precursory early program, where admission officers would visit feeder schools and assign A, B, or C ratings to students. From 1977 to 1995, Princeton employed an early action program, and in 1996, transitioned to an early decision program. In September 2006, the university announced that all applicants for the Class of 2012 would be considered in a single pool, ending the school's early decision program. In February 2011, following decisions by the University of Virginia and Harvard University to reinstate their early admissions programs, Princeton announced it would institute a single-choice early action option for applicants, which it still uses.
Princeton reinstated its transfer students program in 2018 after a three decade moratorium; the program encourages applicants from low-income families, the military, and community colleges.

Costs and financial aid
As of the 2021–2022 academic year, the total cost of attendance is $77,690. 61% of all undergraduates receive financial aid, with the average financial aid grant being $57,251. Tuition, room, and board is free for families making up to $65,000, and financial aid is offered to families making up to $180,000. In 2001, expanding on earlier reforms, Princeton became the first university to eliminate the use of student loans in financial aid, replacing them with grants. In addition, all admissions are need-blind, and financial aid meets 100% of demonstrated financial need. The university does not use academic or athletic merit scholarships. In September 2022, Princeton announced that it would cover all costs for families earning $100,000 a year or less, with reduced costs for higher income families as well.
Kiplinger magazine in 2019 ranked Princeton as the fifth best value school in a combined list comparing private universities, private liberal arts colleges, and public colleges, noting that the average graduating debt was $9,005. For its 2021 rankings, the U.S. News & World Report ranked it second in its category for "Best Value Schools".

Student life and culture
Residential colleges
The university guarantees housing for students for all four years, with more than 98% of undergraduates living on campus. Freshman and sophomores are required to live on campus, specifically in one of the university's seven residential colleges. Once put into a residential college, students have an upperclassmen residential college adviser to adjust to college life and a faculty academic adviser for academic guidance. Upperclassmen are given the option to keep living in the college or decide to move into upperclassmen dorms; upperclassmen still remain affiliated with their college even if they live somewhere else.
Each residential college has its own distinct layout and architecture. Additionally, each college has its own faculty head, dean, director of studies, and director of student life. The colleges feature various amenities, such as dining halls, common rooms, laundry rooms, academic spaces, and arts and entertainment resources. Out of the seven undergraduate colleges (excluding the Graduate College) three of the colleges house students from all classes while the other four house only underclassmen. Present-day residential colleges are:

Princeton's residential college system dates back to when university president Woodrow Wilson's proposed the creation of quadrangles. While the plan was vetoed, it eventually made a resurgence with the creation of Wilson Lodge (now known as First College) in 1957 to provide an alternative to the eating clubs. Wilson Lodge was dedicated as Wilson College in 1968 and served as an experiment for the residential college system. In 2020, Princeton University elected to change the name of Wilson College to First College after the recent deaths involving police brutality of black individuals. When enrollment increased in the 1970s, a university report in 1979 recommended the establishment of five residential colleges. Funding was raised within a year, leading to the development of Rockefeller College (1982), Mathey College (1983), Butler College (1983), and Forbes College (1984). Whitman College was founded and constructed in 2007 at a cost of $100 million. Butler's dorms were demolished in 2007 and a new complex was built in 2009. Butler and Mathey previously acted as only underclassmen colleges, but transitioned to four-year colleges in fall 2009. Princeton completed and opened two new residential colleges—Yeh College and New College West—at the beginning of the academic year in September 2022. The university plans to construct a new residential college named Hobson College where First College currently stands.
Princeton has one graduate residential college, known as the Graduate College, located on a hill about half a mile from the main campus. The location of the Graduate College was the result of a dispute between Woodrow Wilson and then-Graduate School Dean Andrew Fleming West. Wilson preferred a central location for the college; West wanted the graduate students as far as possible from the campus, and ultimately, he prevailed. The Graduate College is composed of a large Collegiate Gothic section crowned by Cleveland Tower, a memorial tower for former Princeton trustee Grover Cleveland. The tower also has 67 carillon bells, making it one of the largest carillons in the world. The attached New Graduate College provides a modern contrast in architectural style to the gothic Old Graduate College. Graduate students also have the option of living in student apartments.

Eating clubs and dining
Each residential college has a dining hall for students in the college, and they vary in their environment and food served. Upperclassmen who no longer live in the college can choose from a variety of options: join an eating club and choose a shared meal plan; join a dining co-op, where groups of students eat, prepare, and cook food together; or organize their own dining. The university offers kosher dining through the Center for Jewish Life and halal dining options for Muslim students in the dining halls.
Social life takes place primarily on campus and is involved heavily with one's residential college or eating club. Residential colleges host a variety of social events and activities, ranging from Broadway show outings to regular barbecues. Eating clubs, while not affiliated with the university, are co-ed organizations that serve as social centers, host events, and invite guest speakers. Additionally, they serve as a place of community for upperclassmen. Five of the clubs have first-serve memberships called "sign-ins" and six clubs use a selective process, in which students must "bicker". This requires prospective members to undergo an interviewing process. Each eating club has a fee to join which ranges from around $9,000 to $10,000. As a result, Princeton increases financial aid for upperclassmen, and the eating clubs also offer financial assistance. Cumulatively, there are ten clubs located on Prospect Avenue—Cannon, Cap and Gown, Charter, Cloister, Colonial, Cottage, Ivy, Quadrangle, Tiger, and Tower—and one located on Washington Road—Terrace. Sixty-eight percent of upperclassmen are members of a club, with each one containing around 150 to 200 students

Campus organizations
Princeton hosts around 500 recognized student organizations and several campus centers. The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) serves as Princeton's student government. The USG funds student organization events, sponsors campus events, and represents the undergraduate student body when convening with faculty and administration.

Founded in about 1765, the American Whig-Cliosophic Society is the nation's oldest collegiate political, literary, and debate society, and is the largest and oldest student organization on campus. The Whig-Clio Society has several subsidiary organizations, each specialized to different areas of politics: the Princeton Debate Panel, International Relations Council, Princeton Mock Trial, and Princeton Model Congress. The International Relations Council manages two Model United Nations conferences: the Princeton Diplomatic Invitational (PDI) for collegiate competition and the Princeton Model United Nations Conference (PMUNC) for high school competition.
There are several publications on campus and a radio station. Founded in 1876, The Daily Princetonian, otherwise known as The Prince, is the second oldest college daily student newspaper in the United States. Other publications include The Nassau Literary Review, the Princeton Tory, a campus journal of conservative thought, The Princeton Diplomat, the only student-run magazine on global affairs, the Princeton Political Review, the only multi-partisan political publication on campus, and the recently revived Princeton Progressive, the only left-leaning political publication on campus, among others. Princeton's WPRB (103.3 FM) radio station is the oldest licensed college radio station in the nation.

Princeton is home to a variety of performing arts and music groups. Many of the groups are represented by the Performing Arts Council. Dating back to 1883, the Princeton Triangle Club is America's oldest touring musical-comedy theater group. It performs its annual Triangle Show every fall at the 1,000 seat McCarter Theatre, as well as original musical comedies, revues, and other shows throughout campus. Princeton's oldest choir is the Glee Club, which began in 1874. The comedic scramble Tiger Band was formed in 1919 and plays at halftime shows and other events. Other groups include the Princeton University Orchestra, the flagship symphony orchestra group founded in 1896, and the Princeton Symphony Orchestra, both of which perform at Alexander Hall.
A cappella groups are a staple of campus life, with many holding concerts, informal shows, and arch sings. Arch sings are where a cappella performances are held in one of Princeton's many gothic arches. The oldest a cappella ensemble is the Nassoons, which were formed in 1941. All-male groups include the Tigertones (1946) and Footnotes (1959); all-female groups include the Tigerlilies (1971), Tigressions (1981), Wildcats (1987); the oldest coed a cappella group in the Ivy League is the Princeton Katzenjammers (1973), which was followed by the Roaring 20 (1983) and Shere Khan (1994).
Princeton features several campus centers for students that provide resources and information for students with certain identities. These include the Center for Jewish Life, the Davis International Center, the Carl A. Fields Center for Equality and Cultural Understanding, the Women's Center, and the LGBT Center. The Frist Campus Center and the Campus Club are additional facilities for the entire campus community that hold various activities and events.
Princeton features 15 chaplaincies and multiple religious student groups. The following faiths are represented on campus: Baha'i, Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Judaism, Islam, Sikhism, and Unitarian Universalism.

Traditions
Princeton students partake in a wide variety of campus traditions, both past and present. Current traditions Princeton students celebrate include the ceremonial bonfire, which takes place on the Cannon Green behind Nassau Hall. It is held only if Princeton beats both Harvard University and Yale University at football in the same season. Another tradition is the use of traditional college cheers at events and reunions, like the "Locomotive", which dates back to before 1894. Princeton students abide by the tradition of never exiting the campus through FitzRandolph Gates until one graduates. According to tradition, anyone who exits campus before their graduation will not graduate. A more controversial tradition is Newman's Day, where some students attempt to drink 24 beers in the 24 hours of April 24. According to The New York Times, "the day got its name from an apocryphal quote attributed to Paul Newman: '24 beers in a case, 24 hours in a day. Coincidence? I think not.'" Newman has spoken out against the tradition. One of the biggest traditions celebrated annually are Reunions, which are massive annual gatherings of alumni. At Reunions, a traditional parade of alumni and their families, known as the "P-rade", process through the campus.
Princeton also has several traditions that have faded into the past. One of them was clapper theft, the act of climbing to the top of Nassau Hall to steal the bell clapper, which rings to signal the start of classes on the first day of the school year. For safety reasons, the clapper was permanently removed. Another was the Nude Olympics, an annual nude and partially nude frolic in Holder Courtyard that used to take place during the first snow of the winter. Started in the early 1970s, the Nude Olympics went co-educational in 1979 and gained much notoriety with the American press. Due to issues of sexual harassment and safety reasons, the administration banned the Olympics in 2000 to the disappointment of students.

Alma mater
"Old Nassau" has been Princeton University's school song since 1859, when it was written that year by freshman Harlan Page Peck. It was originally published in the Nassau Literary Magazine, where it won the magazine's prize for best college song. After an unsuccessful attempt at singing it to Auld Lang Syne's melody, Karl Langlotz, a Princeton professor, wrote the music for it. In 1987, the university changed the gendered lyrics of "Old Nassau" to reflect the school's co-educational student body.

Transportation
Tiger Transit is the bus system of the university, mostly open to the public and linking university campuses and areas around Princeton; routes are updated upon community feedback. The service sees an average of 3,500 boardings per day on weekdays and 1,100 boardings per day on weekends. NJ Transit provides bus service on the 600, 606 and 609 lines and rail service on the Dinky, a small commuter train that provides service to the Princeton Junction Station. Coach USA, through their subsidiary Suburban Transit, provides bus service to New York City and other destinations in New Jersey.

Student body
Princeton has made significant progress in expanding the diversity of its student body in recent years. The 2021 admitted freshman class was one of the most diverse in the school's history, with 68% of students identifying as students of color. The university has worked to increase its enrollment of first-generation and low-income students in recent years. The median family income of Princeton students is $186,100, with 72% of students coming from the top 20% highest-earning families. In 2017, 22% of freshman qualified for federal Pell Grants, above the 16% average for the top 150 schools ranked by the U.S. News & World Report; nationwide, the average was 44%. Based on data in a 2019 article in The Daily Princetonian, 10% of students hail from Bloomberg's 2018 list of "100 richest places", and that the top 20% of high schools send as many students to Princeton as the bottom 80%.
In 1999, 10% of the student body was Jewish, a percentage lower than those at other Ivy League schools. 16% of the student body was Jewish in 1985; the number decreased by 40% from 1985 to 1999. This decline prompted The Daily Princetonian to write a series of articles on the decline and its reasons. The New York Observer wrote that Princeton was "long dogged by a reputation for anti-Semitism" and that this history as well as Princeton's elite status caused the university and its community to feel sensitivity towards the decrease of Jewish students. In the Observer, several theories are proposed for the drop, ranging from campus culture to changing admission policies to national patterns. As of 2021, according to the Center for Jewish Life on campus, the university has approximately 700 Jewish students. As of 2024, according to Hillel International, there are approximately 450 Jewish undergraduates at Princeton, comprising about 8.6% of the undergraduate student body. In addition, about 250 Jewish graduate students are enrolled at Princeton, comprising about 7.9% of the graduate student body. Consequently, as American Jews are accounting for 2.4% of the total US population, there are 358% more Jews among students at Princeton than Jews among the total US population, which makes Jewish students the best represented minority group at Princeton.
Starting in 1967, African American enrollment surged from 1.7% to 10% but has stagnated ever since. Bruce M. Wright was admitted into the university in 1936 as the first African American; however, his admission was a mistake and when he got to campus he was asked to leave. Three years later Wright asked the dean for an explanation on his dismissal and the dean suggested to him that "a member of your race might feel very much alone" at Princeton University. Princeton would not admit its first Black students until in 1945 when Princeton instituted the V-12 program on campus. In 1947, John L. Howard, one of the four naval cadets admitted to the program, would become the first Black student to graduate with a bachelor's degree.

Athletics
Princeton supports organized athletics at three levels: varsity intercollegiate, club intercollegiate, and intramural. It also provides "a variety of physical education and recreational programs" for members of the Princeton community. Most undergraduates participate in athletics at some level. Princeton's colors are orange and black. The school's athletes are known as the Tigers, and the mascot is a tiger. The Princeton administration considered naming the mascot in 2007, but the effort was dropped in the face of alumni and student opposition.

Varsity
Princeton hosts 37 men's and women's varsity sports. Princeton is an NCAA Division I school, with its athletic conference being the Ivy League. Its rowing teams compete in the Eastern Association of Rowing Colleges, and its men's volleyball team competes in the Eastern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association. Princeton's sailing team, though a club sport, competes at the varsity level in the MAISA conference of the Inter-Collegiate Sailing Association.
Princeton's football team competes in the Football Championship Subdivision of NCAA Division I with the rest of the Ivy League. Princeton played against Rutgers University in the first intercollegiate football game in the U.S. on November 6, 1869; Rutgers won the game. From 1877 until at least 1903, Princeton played football using rugby rules.
As of 2021, Princeton claims 28 national football championships, which would make it the most of any school, although the NCAA only recognizes 15 of the wins. With its last win being in 2018, Princeton has won 12 Ivy League championships. In 1951, Dick Kazmaier won Princeton its only Heisman Trophy, the last to come from the Ivy League.
The men's basketball program is noted for its success under Pete Carril, the head coach from 1967 to 1996. During this time, Princeton won 13 Ivy League titles and made 11 NCAA tournament appearances. Carril introduced the Princeton offense, an offensive strategy that has since been adopted by a number of college and professional basketball teams. Carril's final victory at Princeton came when the Tigers beat UCLA, the defending national champion, in the opening round of the 1996 NCAA tournament. On December 14, 2005, Princeton tied the record for the fewest points in a Division I game since the institution of the three-point line in 1986–87, when the Tigers scored 21 points in a loss against Monmouth University.
Princeton women's soccer team advanced to the NCAA Division I Women's Soccer Championship semi-finals in 2004, becoming the first Ivy League team to do so in a 64 team setting. The men's soccer team was coached from 1984 to 1995 by Princeton alumnus and future United States men's national team manager Bob Bradley, who lead the Tigers to win two Ivy League titles and make an appearance at the NCAA Final Four in 1993. Princeton's men's lacrosse program undertook a period of notable success from 1992 to 2001, during which time it won six national championships. In 2012, its field hockey team became the first in the Ivy League to win a national championship.
Princeton has won at least one Ivy League title every year since 1957, and it became the first university in its conference to win over 500 Ivy League athletic championships. From 1896 to 2018, 113 athletes from Princeton have competed in the Olympics, winning 19 gold medals, 24 silver medals, and 23 bronze medals.

Club and intramural
In addition to varsity sports, Princeton hosts 37 club sports teams, which are open to all Princeton students of any skill level. Teams compete against other collegiate teams both in the Northeast and nationally. The intramural sports program is also available on campus, which schedules competitions between residential colleges, eating clubs, independent groups, students, and faculty and staff. Several leagues with differing levels of competitiveness are available.
In the fall, freshman and sophomores participate in the intramural athletic competition called Cane Spree. Although the event centers on cane wrestling, freshman and sophomores compete in other sports and competitions. This commemorates a time in the 1870s when sophomores, angry with the freshmen who strutted around with fancy canes, stole all of the canes from the freshmen, hitting them with their own canes in the process.

Notable people
Alumni
U.S. Presidents James Madison and Woodrow Wilson and vice presidents Aaron Burr, George M. Dallas, and John Breckinridge graduated from Princeton, as did Michelle Obama, the former First Lady of the United States. Former Chief Justice of the United States Oliver Ellsworth was an alumnus, as are current U.S. Supreme Court Associate Justices Samuel Alito, Elena Kagan, and Sonia Sotomayor. Alumnus Jerome Powell was appointed as Chair of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board in 2018. Pete Hegseth, 29th U.S. Secretary of Defense, is a 2003 graduate of Princeton.
Princeton graduates played a major role in the American Revolution, including the first and last Colonels to die on the Patriot side Philip Johnston and Nathaniel Scudder, as well as the highest ranking civilian leader on the British side David Mathews.
Notable graduates of Princeton's School of Engineering and Applied Science include Apollo astronaut and commander of Apollo 12 Pete Conrad, Amazon CEO and founder Jeff Bezos, former chairman of Alphabet Inc. Eric Schmidt, and Lisa P. Jackson, former Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Actors Jimmy Stewart, Wentworth Miller, José Ferrer, David Duchovny, and Brooke Shields graduated from Princeton, as did composers Edward T. Cone and Milton Babbitt. Soccer-player alumna, Diana Matheson, scored the game-winning goal that earned Canada their Olympic bronze medal in 2012.

Writers Booth Tarkington, F. Scott Fitzgerald, and Eugene O'Neill attended but did not graduate. Writer Selden Edwards and poet W. S. Merwin graduated from Princeton. American novelist Jodi Picoult and author David Remnick graduated. Pulitzer prize-winning journalists Barton Gellman and Lorraine Adams, as well as Nobel Peace Prize laureate Maria Ressa, are Princeton alumni. William P. Ross, Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation and founding editor of the Cherokee Advocate, graduated in 1844.
Notable graduate alumni include Allen Shenstone, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, Thornton Wilder, Richard Feynman, Lee Iacocca, John Nash, Alonzo Church, Alan Turing, Terence Tao, Edward Witten, John Milnor, John Bardeen, Steven Weinberg, John Tate, and David Petraeus. Royals such as Prince Moulay Hicham of Morocco, Prince Turki bin Faisal Al Saud, and Queen Noor of Jordan attended Princeton.

Faculty
As of 2021, notable current faculty members include Angus Deaton, Robert Keohane, Edward W. Felten, Anthony Grafton, Peter Singer, Jim Peebles, Manjul Bhargava, Brian Kernighan, Betsy Levy Paluck and Robert P. George. Notable former faculty members include John Witherspoon, Walter Kaufmann, John von Neumann, Ben Bernanke, Paul Krugman, Joseph Henry, Toni Morrison, Joyce Carol Oates, Michael Mullen, Andrew Wiles, Jhumpa Lahiri, Cornel West, Daniel Kahneman, and alumnus Woodrow Wilson.
Albert Einstein, though on the faculty at the Institute for Advanced Study rather than at Princeton, came to be associated with the university through frequent lectures and visits on the campus.

In popular culture
Princeton University is widely considered to be an institution that affiliates with and produces some of the most elite members of society. The university's reputation has made it a frequent reference in media.

This Side of Paradise (1920): In F. Scott Fitzgerald's debut novel, the narrator, Amory Blaine details his life at Princeton, dabbling in literature and unfulfilled romances.
A Beautiful Mind (2001): A biographical film centered around the award-winning mathematician, John Nash, featuring him studying for his PhD at Princeton in the first part of the film.
A Cinderella Story (2004): The main love interest, Austin Ames dreams of becoming a writer and gets accepted into Princeton.
The Rule of Four (2004): A thriller novel by Ian Caldwell and Dustin Thomason about four Princeton seniors: Tom, Paul, Charlie and Gil try to solve the mystery of a coded manuscript.
Never Have I Ever (2020): The protagonist, Devi Vishwakumar gets accepted into Princeton.
Oppenheimer (2023): The biographical film tells the story of J. Robert Oppenheimer, the theoretical physicist who led the Manhattan Project during World War II. It featured Princeton as Oppenheimer was the director of Princeton's Institute for Advanced Study (IAS).
Across the Spider-Verse (2023): Princeton is mentioned as the dream school of Miles Morales, the protagonist.

See also
Big Three (colleges)
Higher education in New Jersey
Ivy League
Princeton University Department of Physics
The Princeton University Summer Journalism Program

Notes
References
Works cited
Further reading
External links
 Media related to Princeton University at Wikimedia Commons
 Quotations related to Princeton University at Wikiquote
 Works on the topic Princeton University at Wikisource
Official website 
Princeton Athletics website
Princeton University, founded as the College of New Jersey, was shaped much in its formative years by the "Log College", a seminary founded by the Reverend William Tennent at Neshaminy, Pennsylvania, in about 1726. While no legal connection ever existed, many of the pupils and adherents from the Log College would go on to financially support and become substantially involved in the early years of the university. While early writers considered it as the predecessor of the university, the idea has been rebuked by Princeton historians.
The founding of the university itself originated from a split in the Presbyterian church following the Great Awakening. In 1741, New Light Presbyterians were expelled from the Synod of Philadelphia in defense of how the Log College ordained ministers. The four founders of the College of New Jersey, who were New Lights, were either expelled or withdrew from the Synod and devised a plan to establish a new college, for they were disappointed with Harvard and Yale's opposition to the Great Awakening and dissatisfied with the limited instruction at the Log College. They convinced three other Presbyterians to join them and decided on New Jersey as the location for the college, as at the time, there was no institution between Yale College in New Haven, Connecticut, and the College of William & Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia; it was also where some of the founders preached. Although their initial request was rejected by the Anglican governor Lewis Morrison, the acting governor after Morrison's death, John Hamilton, granted a charter for the College of New Jersey on October 22, 1746. In 1747, approximately five months after acquiring the charter, the trustees elected Jonathan Dickinson as president and opened in Elizabeth, New Jersey, where classes were held in Dickinson's parsonage. With its founding, it became the fourth-oldest institution of higher education in the United States, and one of nine colonial colleges chartered before the American Revolution. The founders aimed for the college to have an expansive curriculum to teach people of various professions, not solely ministerial work. Though the school was open to those of any religious denomination, with many of the founders being of Presbyterian faith, the college became the educational and religious capital of Scotch-Irish Presbyterian America.
In 1747, following the death of then President Jonathan Dickinson, the college moved from Elizabeth to Newark, New Jersey, as that was where presidential successor Aaron Burr Sr.'s parsonage was located. That same year, Princeton's first charter came under dispute by Anglicans, but on September 14, 1748, the recently appointed governor Jonathan Belcher granted a second charter. Belcher, a Congregationalist, had become alienated from his alma mater, Harvard, and decided to "adopt" the infant college. Belcher would go on to raise funds for the college and donate his 474-volume library, making it one of the largest libraries in the colonies.

In 1756, the college moved again to its present home in Princeton, New Jersey, because Newark was felt to be too close to New York. Princeton was chosen for its location in central New Jersey and by strong recommendation by Belcher. The college's home in Princeton was Nassau Hall, named for the royal William III of England, a member of the House of Orange-Nassau. The trustees of the College of New Jersey initially suggested that Nassau Hall be named in recognition of Belcher because of his interest in the institution; the governor vetoed the request.
Burr, who would die in 1757, devised a curriculum for the school and enlarged the student body. Following the untimely death of Burr and the college's next three presidents, John Witherspoon became president in 1768 and remained in that post until his death in 1794. With his presidency, Witherspoon focused the college on preparing a new generation of both educated clergy and secular leadership in the new American nation. To this end, he tightened academic standards, broadened the curriculum, solicited investment for the college, and grew its size.
A signatory of the Declaration of Independence, Witherspoon and his leadership led the college to becoming influential to the American Revolution. In 1777, the college became the site for the Battle of Princeton. During the battle, British soldiers briefly occupied Nassau Hall before eventually surrendering to American forces led by General George Washington. During the summer and fall of 1783, the Continental Congress and Washington met in Nassau Hall, making Princeton the country's capital for four months; Nassau Hall is where Congress learned of the peace treaty between the colonies and the British. The college did suffer from the revolution, with a depreciated endowment and hefty repair bills for Nassau Hall.
In 1795, President Samuel Stanhope Smith took office, the first alumnus to become president. Nassau Hall suffered a large fire that destroyed its interior in 1802, which Smith blamed on rebellious students. The college raised funds for reconstruction, as well as the construction of two new buildings. In 1807, a large student riot occurred at Nassau Hall, spurred by underlying distrust of educational reforms by Smith away from the Church. Following Smith's mishandling of the situation, falling enrollment, and faculty resignations, the trustees of the university offered resignation to Smith, which he accepted. In 1812, Ashbel Green was unanimously elected by the trustees of the college to become the eighth president. After the liberal tenure of Smith, Green represented the conservative "Old Side", in which he introduced rigorous disciplinary rules and heavily embraced religion. Even so, believing the college was not religious enough, he took a prominent role in establishing the Princeton Theological Seminary next door. While student riots were a frequent occurrence during Green's tenure, enrollment did increase under his administration.

In 1823, James Carnahan became president, arriving as an unprepared and timid leader. With the college riven by conflicting views between students, faculty, and trustees, and enrollment hitting its lowest in years, Carnahan considered closing the university. Carnahan's successor, John Maclean Jr., who was only a professor at the time, recommended saving the university with the help of alumni; as a result, Princeton's alumni association, led by James Madison, was created and began raising funds. With Carnahan and Maclean, now vice-president, working as partners, enrollment and faculty increased, tensions decreased, and the college campus expanded. Maclean took over the presidency in 1854, and led the university through the American Civil War. When Nassau Hall burned down again in 1855, Maclean raised funds and used the money to rebuild Nassau Hall and run the university on an austerity budget during the war years. With a third of students from the college being from the South, enrollment fell. Once many of the Southerners left, the campus became a sharp proponent for the Union, even bestowing an honorary degree to President Lincoln. James McCosh became the college's president in 1868, and lifted the institution out of a low period that had been brought about by the war. During his two decades of service, he overhauled the curriculum, oversaw an expansion of inquiry into the sciences, recruited distinguished faculty, and supervised the addition of a number of buildings in the High Victorian Gothic style to the campus. McCosh's tenure also saw the creation and rise of many extracurricular activities, like the Princeton Glee Club, the Triangle Club, the first intercollegiate football team, and the first permanent eating club, as well as the elimination of fraternities and sororities. In 1879, Princeton conferred its first doctorates on James F. Williamson and William Libby, both members of the Class of 1877.
Francis Patton took the presidency in 1888, and although his election was not met by unanimous enthusiasm, he was well received by undergraduates. Patton's administration was marked by great change, for Princeton's enrollment and faculty had doubled. At the same time, the college underwent large expansion and social life was changing in reflection of the rise in eating clubs and burgeoning interest in athletics. In 1893, the honor system was established, allowing for unproctored exams. In 1896, the college officially became a university, and as a result, it officially changed its name to Princeton University. In 1900, the Graduate School was formally established. Even with such accomplishments, Patton's administration remained lackluster with its administrative structure and towards its educational standards. Due to profile changes in the board of trustees and dissatisfaction with his administration, he was forced to resign in 1902.
Following Patton's resignation, Woodrow Wilson, an alumnus and popular professor, was elected the 13th president of the university. Noticing falling academic standards, Wilson orchestrated significant changes to the curriculum, where freshman and sophomores followed a unified curriculum while juniors and seniors concentrated study in one discipline. Ambitious seniors were allowed to undertake independent work, which would eventually shape Princeton's emphasis on the practice for the future. Wilson further reformed the educational system by introducing the preceptorial system in 1905, a then-unique concept in the United States that augmented the standard lecture method of teaching with a more personal form in which small groups of students, or precepts, could interact with a single instructor, or preceptor, in their field of interest. The changes brought about many new faculty and cemented Princeton's academics for the first half of the 20th century. Due to the tightening of academic standards, enrollment declined severely until 1907. In 1906, the reservoir Lake Carnegie was created by Andrew Carnegie, and the university officially became nonsectarian. Before leaving office, Wilson strengthened the science program to focus on "pure" research and broke the Presbyterian lock on the board of trustees. However, he did fail in winning support for the permanent location of the Graduate School and the elimination of the eating clubs, which he proposed replacing with quadrangles, a precursor to the residential college system. Wilson also continued to keep Princeton closed off from accepting Black students. When an aspiring Black student wrote a letter to Wilson, he got his secretary to reply telling him to attend a university where he would be more welcome.
John Grier Hibben became president in 1912, and would remain in the post for two decades. On October 2, 1913, the Princeton University Graduate College was dedicated. When the United States entered World War I in 1917, Hibben allocated all available University resources to the government. As a result, military training schools opened on campus and laboratories and other facilities were used for research and operational programs. Overall, more than 6,000 students served in the armed forces, with 151 dying during the war. After the war, enrollment spiked and the trustees established the system of selective admission in 1922. From the 1920s to the 1930s, the student body featured many students from preparatory schools, zero Black students, and dwindling Jewish enrollment because of quotas. Aside from managing Princeton during WWI, Hibben introduced the senior thesis in 1923 as a part of The New Plan of Study. He also brought about great expansion to the university, with the creation of the School of Architecture in 1919, the School of Engineering in 1921, and the School of Public and International Affairs in 1930. By the end of his presidency, the endowment had increased by 374 percent, the total area of the campus doubled, the faculty experienced impressive growth, and the enrollment doubled.
Hibben's successor, Harold Willis Dodds would lead the university through the Great Depression, World War II, and the Korean Conflict. With the Great Depression, many students were forced to withdraw due to financial reasons. At the same time, Princeton's reputation in physics and mathematics surged as many European scientists left for the United States due to uneasy tension caused by Nazi Germany. In 1930, the Institute for Advanced Study was founded to provide a space for the influx of scientists, such as Albert Einstein. Many Princeton scientists would work on the Manhattan Project during the war, including the entire physics department. During World War II, Princeton offered an accelerated program for students to graduate early before entering the armed forces. Student enrollment fluctuated from month to month, and many faculty were forced to teach unfamiliar subjects. Still, Dodds maintained academic standards and would establish a program for servicemen, so they could resume their education once discharged.
The post-war years saw scholars renewing broken bonds through numerous conventions, expansion of the campus, and the introduction of distribution requirements. The period saw the desegregation of Princeton, which was stimulated by changes to the New Jersey constitution. Princeton began undertaking a sharper focus towards research in the years after the war, with the construction of Firestone Library in 1948 and the establishment of the Forrestal Research Center in nearby Plainsboro Township in the 1950s. Government sponsored research increased sharply, particularly in the physics and engineering departments, with much of it occurring at the new Forrestal campus. Though, as the years progressed, scientific research at the Forrestal campus declined, and in 1973, some of the land was converted to commercial and residential spaces.
Robert Goheen would succeed Dodds by unanimous vote and serve as president until 1972. Goheen's presidency was characterized as being more liberal than previous presidents, and his presidency would see a rise in Black applicants, as well as the eventual coeducation of the university in 1969. During this period of rising diversity, the Third World Center (now known as the Carl A. Fields Center) was dedicated in 1971. Goheen also oversaw great expansion for the university, with square footage increasing by 80 percentage.
Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, Princeton experienced unprecedented activism, with most of it centered on the Vietnam War. While Princeton activism initially remained relatively timid compared to other institutions, protests began to grow with the founding of a local chapter of Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) in 1965, which organized many of the later Princeton protests. In 1966, the SDS gained prominence on campus following picketing against a speech by President Lyndon B. Johnson, which gained frontpage coverage by the New York Times. A notable point of contention on campus was the Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA) and would feature multiple protests, some of which required police action. In 1967, SDS members and sympathizers beat the campus R.O.T.C. chapter in a game of touch football. As the years went on, the protests' agenda broadened to investments in South Africa, environmental issues, and women's rights. In response to these broadening protests, the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) was founded to serve as a method for greater student voice in governance. Activism culminated in 1970 with a student, faculty, and staff member strike, so the university could become an "institution against expansion of the war." Princeton's protests would taper off later that year, with The Daily Princetonian saying that, "Princeton 1970–71 was an emotionally burned out university."
In 1982, the residential college system was officially established under Goheen's successor William G. Bowen, who would serve until 1988. During his presidency, Princeton's endowment increased from $625 million to $2 billion, and a major fundraising drive known as "A Campaign for Princeton" was conducted. President Harold T. Shapiro would succeed Bowen and remain president until 2001. Shapiro would continue to increase the endowment, expand academic programs, raise student diversity, and oversee the most renovations in Princeton's history. One of Shapiro's initiatives was the formation of the multidisciplinary Princeton Environmental Institute in 1994, renamed the High Meadows Environmental Institute in 2020. In 2001, Princeton shifted the financial aid policy to a system that replaced all loans with grants. That same year, Princeton elected its first female president, Shirley M. Tilghman. Before retiring in 2012, Tilghman expanded financial aid offerings and conducted several major construction projects like the Lewis Center for the Arts and a sixth residential college. Tilghman also lead initiatives for more global programs, the creation of an office of sustainability, and investments into the sciences.
Princeton's 20th and current president, Christopher Eisgruber, was elected in 2013. In 2017, Princeton University unveiled a large-scale public history and digital humanities investigation into its historical involvement with slavery called the Princeton & Slavery Project. The project saw the publication of hundreds of primary sources, 80 scholarly essays, a scholarly conference, a series of short plays, and an art project. In April 2018, university trustees announced that they would name two public spaces for James Collins Johnson and Betsey Stockton, enslaved people who lived and worked on Princeton's campus and whose stories were publicized by the project. In 2019, large-scale student activism again entered the mainstream concerning the school's implementation of federal Title IX policy relating to campus sexual assault. The activism consisted of sit-ins in response to a student's disciplinary sentence.
In April 2024, students joined other campuses across the United States in protests and establishing encampments against the Gaza war and the alleged genocide of Palestinians in Gaza. The protestors called for divestment from Israel, started a hunger strike and were joined by faculty. The sit-in of Clio Hall led to arrests by police. Activism and protests continued in the new academic year starting September 2024 with administrators facing calls for resignation from faculty.
Princeton explicitly prohibited the admission of women from its founding in 1746 until 1969. Since it lacked an affiliated women's college, it was often referred to as a "monastery", both lovingly and derisively, by members of the Princeton community.
For about a decade, from 1887 to 1897, nearby Evelyn College for Women was largely composed of daughters of professors and sisters of Princeton undergraduates. While no legal connection existed, many Princeton professors taught there and several Princeton administrators, such as Francis Patton, were on its board of trustees. It closed in 1897 following the death of its founder, Joshua McIlvaine.
In 1947, three female members of the library staff enrolled in beginning Russian courses to deal with an increase in Russian literature in the library. In 1961, Princeton admitted its first female graduate student, Sabra Follett Meservey, who would go on to be the first woman to earn a master's degree at Princeton. Meservey was, at the time of her admission, already a member of the faculty at Douglass College within Princeton. The dean of the graduate school issued a statement clarifying that Meservey's admission was an exception, and that "Princeton may permit other women in the future as special cases, but does not plan to make general admissions of women graduate students." The student-run Daily Princetonian ran four articles about Meservey in one issue, including an editorial lamenting the potential "far reaching implications" of Meservey's admission which concluded: "Princeton is unique as an undergraduate men's college and must remain so." Eight more women enrolled the following year in the Graduate School. In 1964, T'sai-ying Cheng became the first woman at Princeton to receive a Ph.D. In 1963, five women came to Princeton for one year to study "critical languages" as undergraduates, but were not candidates for a Princeton degree. Following abortive discussions with Sarah Lawrence College to relocate the women's college to Princeton and merge it with the university in 1967, the administration commissioned a report on admitting women. The final report was issued in January 1969, supporting the idea. That same month, Princeton's trustees voted 24–8 in favor of coeducation and began preparing the institution for the transition. The university finished these plans in April 1969 and announced there would be coeducation in September. Ultimately, 101 female freshman and 70 female transfer students enrolled at Princeton in September 1969. Those admitted were housed in Pyne Hall, a fairly isolated dormitory; a security system was added, although the women deliberately broke it within a day.
In 1971, Mary St. John Douglas and Susan Savage Speers became the first female trustees, and in 1974, quotas for men and women were eliminated. Following a 1979 lawsuit, the eating clubs were required to go coeducational in 1991, after an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court was denied. In 2001, Princeton elected its first female president.
The main campus consists of more than 200 buildings on 600 acres (2.4 km2) in Princeton, New Jersey. The James Forrestal Campus, a smaller location designed mainly as a research and instruction complex, is split between nearby Plainsboro and South Brunswick. The campuses are situated about one hour from both New York City and Philadelphia on the train. The university also owns more than 520 acres (2.1 km2) of property in West Windsor Township, and is where Princeton is planning to construct a graduate student housing complex, which will be known as "Lake Campus North".
The first building on campus was Nassau Hall, completed in 1756, and situated on the northern edge of the campus facing Nassau Street. The campus expanded steadily around Nassau Hall during the early and middle 19th century. The McCosh presidency (1868–88) saw the construction of a number of buildings in the High Victorian Gothic and Romanesque Revival styles, although many of them are now gone, leaving the remaining few to appear out of place. At the end of the 19th century, much of Princeton's architecture was designed by the Cope and Stewardson firm (led by the same University of Pennsylvania professors of architecture who designed a large part of Washington University in St. Louis and University of Pennsylvania) resulting in the Collegiate Gothic style for which Princeton is known for today. Implemented initially by William Appleton Potter, and later enforced by the university's supervising architect, Ralph Adams Cram, the Collegiate Gothic style remained the standard for all new building on the Princeton campus until 1960. A flurry of construction projects in the 1960s produced a number of new buildings on the south side of the main campus, many of which have been poorly received. Several prominent architects have contributed some more recent additions, including Frank Gehry (Lewis Library), I. M. Pei (Spelman Halls), Demetri Porphyrios (Whitman College, a Collegiate Gothic project), Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown (Frist Campus Center, among several others), Minoru Yamasaki (Robertson Hall), and Rafael Viñoly (Carl Icahn Laboratory).
A group of 20th-century sculptures scattered throughout the campus forms the Putnam Collection of Sculpture. It includes works by Alexander Calder (Five Disks: One Empty), Jacob Epstein (Albert Einstein), Henry Moore (Oval with Points), Isamu Noguchi (White Sun), and Pablo Picasso (Head of a Woman). Richard Serra's The Hedgehog and The Fox is located between Peyton and Fine halls next to Princeton Stadium and the Lewis Library.
At the southern edge of the campus is Lake Carnegie, an artificial lake named for Andrew Carnegie. Carnegie financed the lake's construction in 1906 at the behest of a friend and his brother who were both Princeton alumni. Carnegie hoped the opportunity to take up rowing would inspire Princeton students to forsake football, which he considered "not gentlemanly." The Shea Rowing Center on the lake's shore continues to serve as the headquarters for Princeton rowing.
Princeton's grounds were designed by Beatrix Farrand between 1912 and 1943. Her contributions were most recently recognized with the naming of a courtyard for her. Subsequent changes to the landscape were introduced by Quennell Rothschild & Partners in 2000. In 2005, Michael Van Valkenburgh was hired as the new consulting landscape architect for Princeton's 2016 Campus Plan. Lynden B. Miller was invited to work with him as Princeton's consulting gardening architect, focusing on the 17 gardens that are distributed throughout the campus.
Nassau Hall is the oldest building on campus. Begun in 1754 and completed in 1756, it was the first seat of the New Jersey Legislature in 1776, was involved in the Battle of Princeton in 1777, and was the seat of the Congress of the Confederation (and thus capitol of the United States) from June 30, 1783, to November 4, 1783. Since 1911, the front entrance has been flanked by two bronze tigers, a gift of the Princeton Class of 1879, which replaced two lions previously given in 1889. Starting in 1922, commencement has been held on the front lawn of Nassau Hall when there is good weather. In 1966, Nassau Hall was added to the National Register of Historic Places. Nowadays, it houses the office of the university president and other administrative offices.
To the south of Nassau Hall lies a courtyard that is known as Cannon Green. Buried in the ground at the center is the "Big Cannon", which was left in Princeton by British troops as they fled following the Battle of Princeton. It remained in Princeton until the War of 1812, when it was taken to New Brunswick. In 1836, the cannon was returned to Princeton and placed at the eastern end of town. Two years later, it was moved to the campus under cover of night by Princeton students, and in 1840, it was buried in its current location. A second "Little Cannon" is buried in the lawn in front of nearby Whig Hall. The cannon, which may also have been captured in the Battle of Princeton, was stolen by students of Rutgers University in 1875. The theft ignited the Rutgers-Princeton Cannon War. A compromise between the presidents of Princeton and Rutgers ended the war and forced the return of the Little Cannon to Princeton. The protruding cannons are occasionally painted scarlet by Rutgers students who continue the traditional dispute.
Though art collection at the university dates back to its very founding, the Princeton University Art Museum was not officially established until 1882 by President McCosh. Its establishment arose from a desire to provide direct access to works of art in a museum for a curriculum in the arts, an education system familiar to many European universities at the time. The museum took on the purposes of providing "exposure to original works of art and to teach the history of art through an encyclopedic collection of world art."
Numbering over 112,000 objects, the collections range from ancient to contemporary art and come from Europe, Asia, Africa, and the Americas. The museum's art is divided into ten extensive curatorial areas. There is a collection of Greek and Roman antiquities, including ceramics, marbles, bronzes, and Roman mosaics from faculty excavations in Antioch, as well as other art from the ancient Egyptian, Byzantium, and Islamic worlds. The non-Islamic coins were catalogued by Dorothy B. Waage. Medieval Europe is represented by sculpture, metalwork, and stained glass. The collection of Western European paintings includes examples from the early Renaissance through the 19th century, with pieces by Monet, Cézanne, and Van Gogh, and features a growing collection of 20th-century and contemporary art, including paintings such as Andy Warhol's Blue Marilyn.
The museum features a collection of Chinese and Japanese art, with holdings in bronzes, tomb figurines, painting, and calligraphy, as well as collections of Korean, Southeast, and Central Asian art. Its collection of pre-Columbian art includes examples of Mayan and Olmec art, and its indigenous art ranges from Chile to Alaska to Greenland. The museum has collections of old master prints and drawings, and it has a comprehensive collection of over 20,000 photographs. Approximately 750 works of African art are represented. The Museum oversees the outside John B. Putnam Jr., Memorial Collection of Sculpture.
The Princeton University Chapel is located on the north side of campus near Nassau Street. It was built between 1924 and 1928 at a cost of $2.3 million, approximately $42.1 million adjusted for inflation in 2020. Ralph Adams Cram, the university's supervising architect, designed the chapel, which he viewed as the crown jewel for the Collegiate Gothic motif he had championed for the campus. At the time of its construction, it was the second largest university chapel in the world, after King's College Chapel, Cambridge. It underwent a two-year, $10 million restoration campaign between 2000 and 2002. The Chapel seats around 2,000 and serves as a site for religious services and local celebrations.
Measured on the exterior, the chapel is 277 feet (84 m) long, 76 feet (23 m) wide at its transepts, and 121 feet (37 m) high. The exterior is Pennsylvania sandstone, trimmed with Indiana limestone, and the interior is made of limestone and Aquia Creek sandstone. The design evokes characteristics of an English church of the Middle Ages. The extensive iconography, in stained glass, stonework, and wood carvings, has the common theme of connecting religion and scholarship.
Published in 2008, the Sustainability Action Plan was the first formal plan for sustainability enacted by the university. It focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, conservation of resources, and research, education, and civic engagement for sustainability through 10 year objectives. Since the 2008 plan, Princeton has aimed at reducing its carbon dioxide emissions to 1990 levels without the purchase of market offsets and predicts to meet the goal by 2026 (the former goal was by 2020 but COVID-19 requirements delayed this). Princeton released its second Sustainability Action Plan in 2019 on Earth Day with its main goal being reducing campus greenhouse gases to net zero by 2046 as well as other objectives building on those in the 2008 plan. In 2021, the university agreed to divest from thermal coal and tar sand segments of the fossil fuel industry and from companies that are involved in climate disinformation after student protest. Princeton is a member of the Ivy Plus Sustainability Consortium, through which it has committed to best-practice sharing and the ongoing exchange of campus sustainability solutions along with other member institutions.
Princeton's Sustainability Action Plan also aims to have zero waste through recycling programs, sustainable purchasing, and behavioral and operational strategies.
Princeton's 20th and current president is Christopher Eisgruber, who was appointed by the university's board of trustees in 2013. The board is responsible for the overall direction of the university. It consists of no fewer than 23 and no more than 40 members at any one time, with the president of the university and the governor of New Jersey serving as ex officio members. It approves the operating and capital budgets, supervises the investment of the university's endowment, and oversees campus real estate and long-range physical planning. The trustees also exercise prior review and approval concerning changes in major policies such as those in instructional programs and admission as well as tuition and fees and the hiring of faculty members.
The university is composed of the Undergraduate College, the Graduate School, the School of Architecture, the School of Engineering and Applied Science, and the School of Public and International Affairs. Additionally, the school's Bendheim Center for Finance provides education for the area of money and finance in lieu of a business school. Princeton did host a Princeton Law School for a short period, before eventually closing in 1852 due to poor income. Princeton's lack of other professional schools can be attributed to a university focus on undergraduates.
The university has ties with the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton Theological Seminary, Rutgers University, and the Westminster Choir College of Rider University. Princeton is a member of the Association of American Universities, the Universities Research Association, and the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. The university is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), with its last reaffirmation in 2014.
Princeton University's endowment of $37 billion (per 2021 figures) was ranked as the fourth largest endowment in the United States, and it had the greatest per-student endowment in the world at over $4.4 million per student. The endowment is sustained through continued donations and is maintained by investment advisers. Princeton's operating budget is over $2 billion per year, with 50% going to academic departments and programs, 33% to administrative and student service departments, 10% to financial aid departments, and 7% to the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory.
Princeton follows a liberal arts curriculum, and offers two bachelor's degrees to students: a Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) and a Bachelor of Science in Engineering (B.S.E.). Typically, A.B. students choose a major (called a concentration) at the end of sophomore year, while B.S.E. students declare at the end of their freshman year. Students must complete distribution requirements, departmental requirements, and independent work to graduate with either degree. A.B. students must complete distribution requirements in literature and the arts, science and engineering, social analysis, cultural difference, epistemology and cognition, ethical thought and moral values, historical analysis, and quantitative and computational reasoning; they must also have satisfactory ability in a foreign language. Additionally, they must complete two papers of independent work during their junior year—known as the junior papers—and craft a senior thesis to graduate; both revolve around the concentration they are pursuing. B.S.E. majors complete fewer courses in the humanities and social sciences and instead fulfill requirements in mathematics, physics, chemistry, and computer programming. They likewise must complete independent work, which typically involves a design project or senior thesis, but not the junior papers. A.B. majors must complete 31 courses, whereas B.S.E. majors must complete 36 courses.
Students can choose from either 36 concentrations or create their own. They can also participate in 55 interdisciplinary certificate programs; since Princeton does not offer an academic minor, the certificates effectively serve as one. Course structure is determined by the instructor and department. Classes vary in their format, ranging from small seminars to medium-sized lecture courses to large lecture courses. The latter two typically have precepts, which are extra weekly discussion sessions that are led by either the professor or a graduate student. The average class meeting time is 3–4 hours a week, although this can vary depending on the course. The student to faculty ratio is 5 to 1, and a majority of classes have fewer than 20 students. In the Fiske Guide to Colleges, academic culture is considered as "tight-knit, extremely hardworking, highly cooperative, and supportive."
Undergraduates agree to adhere to an academic integrity policy called the Honor Code. Under the Honor Code, faculty do not proctor examinations; instead, the students proctor one another and must report any suspected violation to an Honor Committee made up of undergraduates. The Committee investigates reported violations and holds a hearing if it is warranted. An acquittal at such a hearing results in the destruction of all records of the hearing; a conviction results in the student's suspension or expulsion. Violations pertaining to all other academic work fall under the jurisdiction of the Faculty-Student Committee on Discipline. Undergraduates are expected to sign a pledge on their written work affirming that they have not plagiarized the work.
The first focus on issues of grade inflation by the Princeton administration began in 1998 when a university report was released showcasing a steady rise in undergraduate grades from 1973 to 1997. Subsequent reports and discussion from the report culminated to when in 2004, Nancy Weiss Malkiel, the dean of the college, implemented a grade deflation policy to address the findings. Malkiel's reason for the policy was that an A was becoming devalued as a larger percentage of the student body received one. Following its introduction, the number of A's and average GPA on campus dropped, although A's and B's were still the most frequent grades awarded. The policy received mixed approval from both faculty and students when first instituted. Criticism for grade deflation continued through the years, with students alleging negative effects like increased competition and lack of willingness to choose challenging classes. Other criticism included job market and graduate school prospects, although Malkiel responded by saying that she sent 3,000 letters to numerous institutions and employers informing them. In 2009, transcripts began including a statement about the policy.
In October 2013, Princeton President Christopher Eisgruber created a faculty committee to review the deflation policy. In August 2014, the committee released a report recommending the removal of the policy and instead develop consistent standards for grading across individual departments. In October 2014, following a faculty vote, the numerical targets were removed in response to the report. In a 2020 analysis of undergraduate grades following the removal of a policy, there were no long-lasting effects, with the percent of students receiving A's higher than in 1998.
For the 2019–2020 academic year, the Graduate School enrolled 2,971 students. Approximately 40% of the students were female, 42% were international, and 35% of domestic students were a member of a U.S. minority group. The average time to complete a doctoral degree was 5.7 years. The university awarded 318 Ph.D. degrees and 174 final master's degrees for the 2019–2020 academic year.
The Graduate School offers degrees in 42 academic departments and programs, which span the humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and engineering. Doctoral education is available for all departments while master's degrees are only available in the architecture, engineering, finance, and public policy departments. Doctoral education focuses on original, independent scholarship whereas master's degrees focus more on career preparation in both public life and professional practice. Graduate students can also concentrate in an interdisciplinary program and be granted a certificate. Joint degrees are available for several disciplines, as are dual M.D./Ph.D. or M.P.A./J.D. programs.
Students in the graduate school can participate in regional cross-registration agreements, domestic exchanges with other Ivy League schools and similar institutions, and in international partnerships and exchanges.
Princeton is one of the world's most prominent research universities, featured at the top of U.S. News & World Report's national university rankings for the ninth consecutive year in 2024, as well as topping comparable lists by Forbes and The Wall Street Journal.
Princeton is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity." Based on data for the 2020 fiscal year, the university received approximately US$250 million in sponsored research for its main campus, with 81.4% coming from the government, 12.1% from foundations, 5.5% from industry, and 1.0% from private and other. An additional $120 million in sponsored research was for the Plasma Physics Lab; the main campus and the lab combined totaled to $370 million for sponsored research. Based on 2017 data, the university ranked 72nd among 902 institutions for research expenditures.
Based on 2018 data, Princeton's National Academy Membership totaled to 126, ranking 9th in the nation. The university hosts 75 research institutes and centers and two national laboratories. Princeton is a member of the New Jersey Space Grant Consortium.
The Princeton University Library system houses over 13 million holdings through 11 buildings, including seven million bound volumes, making it one of the largest university libraries in the United States. Built in 1948, the main campus library is Firestone Library and serves as the main repository for the humanities and social sciences. Its collections include the autographed manuscript of F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby and George F. Kennan's Long Telegram. In addition to Firestone library, specialized libraries exist for architecture, art and archaeology, East Asian studies, engineering, music, public and international affairs, public policy and university archives, and the sciences. The library system provides access to subscription-based electronic resources and databases to students.
The Department of Energy's Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL) stemmed from Project Matterhorn, a top secret cold war project created in 1951 aimed at achieving controlled nuclear fusion. Princeton astrophysics professor Lyman Spitzer became the first director of the project and remained director until the lab's declassification in 1961 when it received its current name. Today, it is an institute for fusion energy research and plasma physics research.
Founded in 1955 and located at Princeton's Forrestal Campus since 1968, the NOAA's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory (GFDL) conducts climate research and modeling. Princeton faculty, research scientists, and graduate scientists can participate in research with the lab.
Princeton offers several methods to apply: the Common Application, the Coalition Application, and the QuestBridge Application. Princeton's application requires several writing supplements and submitting a graded written paper.
Princeton's undergraduate program is highly selective, admitting 5.8% of undergraduate applicants in the 2019–2020 admissions cycle (for the Class of 2024). The middle 50% range of SAT scores was 1470–1560, the middle 50% range of the ACT composite score was 33–35, and the average high school GPA was a 3.91. For graduate admissions, in the 2021–2022 academic year, Princeton received 12,553 applications for admission and accepted 1,322 applicants, with a yield rate of 51%.
In the 1950s, Princeton used an ABC system to function as a precursory early program, where admission officers would visit feeder schools and assign A, B, or C ratings to students. From 1977 to 1995, Princeton employed an early action program, and in 1996, transitioned to an early decision program. In September 2006, the university announced that all applicants for the Class of 2012 would be considered in a single pool, ending the school's early decision program. In February 2011, following decisions by the University of Virginia and Harvard University to reinstate their early admissions programs, Princeton announced it would institute a single-choice early action option for applicants, which it still uses.
Princeton reinstated its transfer students program in 2018 after a three decade moratorium; the program encourages applicants from low-income families, the military, and community colleges.
As of the 2021–2022 academic year, the total cost of attendance is $77,690. 61% of all undergraduates receive financial aid, with the average financial aid grant being $57,251. Tuition, room, and board is free for families making up to $65,000, and financial aid is offered to families making up to $180,000. In 2001, expanding on earlier reforms, Princeton became the first university to eliminate the use of student loans in financial aid, replacing them with grants. In addition, all admissions are need-blind, and financial aid meets 100% of demonstrated financial need. The university does not use academic or athletic merit scholarships. In September 2022, Princeton announced that it would cover all costs for families earning $100,000 a year or less, with reduced costs for higher income families as well.
Kiplinger magazine in 2019 ranked Princeton as the fifth best value school in a combined list comparing private universities, private liberal arts colleges, and public colleges, noting that the average graduating debt was $9,005. For its 2021 rankings, the U.S. News & World Report ranked it second in its category for "Best Value Schools".
The university guarantees housing for students for all four years, with more than 98% of undergraduates living on campus. Freshman and sophomores are required to live on campus, specifically in one of the university's seven residential colleges. Once put into a residential college, students have an upperclassmen residential college adviser to adjust to college life and a faculty academic adviser for academic guidance. Upperclassmen are given the option to keep living in the college or decide to move into upperclassmen dorms; upperclassmen still remain affiliated with their college even if they live somewhere else.
Each residential college has its own distinct layout and architecture. Additionally, each college has its own faculty head, dean, director of studies, and director of student life. The colleges feature various amenities, such as dining halls, common rooms, laundry rooms, academic spaces, and arts and entertainment resources. Out of the seven undergraduate colleges (excluding the Graduate College) three of the colleges house students from all classes while the other four house only underclassmen. Present-day residential colleges are:

Princeton's residential college system dates back to when university president Woodrow Wilson's proposed the creation of quadrangles. While the plan was vetoed, it eventually made a resurgence with the creation of Wilson Lodge (now known as First College) in 1957 to provide an alternative to the eating clubs. Wilson Lodge was dedicated as Wilson College in 1968 and served as an experiment for the residential college system. In 2020, Princeton University elected to change the name of Wilson College to First College after the recent deaths involving police brutality of black individuals. When enrollment increased in the 1970s, a university report in 1979 recommended the establishment of five residential colleges. Funding was raised within a year, leading to the development of Rockefeller College (1982), Mathey College (1983), Butler College (1983), and Forbes College (1984). Whitman College was founded and constructed in 2007 at a cost of $100 million. Butler's dorms were demolished in 2007 and a new complex was built in 2009. Butler and Mathey previously acted as only underclassmen colleges, but transitioned to four-year colleges in fall 2009. Princeton completed and opened two new residential colleges—Yeh College and New College West—at the beginning of the academic year in September 2022. The university plans to construct a new residential college named Hobson College where First College currently stands.
Princeton has one graduate residential college, known as the Graduate College, located on a hill about half a mile from the main campus. The location of the Graduate College was the result of a dispute between Woodrow Wilson and then-Graduate School Dean Andrew Fleming West. Wilson preferred a central location for the college; West wanted the graduate students as far as possible from the campus, and ultimately, he prevailed. The Graduate College is composed of a large Collegiate Gothic section crowned by Cleveland Tower, a memorial tower for former Princeton trustee Grover Cleveland. The tower also has 67 carillon bells, making it one of the largest carillons in the world. The attached New Graduate College provides a modern contrast in architectural style to the gothic Old Graduate College. Graduate students also have the option of living in student apartments.
Each residential college has a dining hall for students in the college, and they vary in their environment and food served. Upperclassmen who no longer live in the college can choose from a variety of options: join an eating club and choose a shared meal plan; join a dining co-op, where groups of students eat, prepare, and cook food together; or organize their own dining. The university offers kosher dining through the Center for Jewish Life and halal dining options for Muslim students in the dining halls.
Social life takes place primarily on campus and is involved heavily with one's residential college or eating club. Residential colleges host a variety of social events and activities, ranging from Broadway show outings to regular barbecues. Eating clubs, while not affiliated with the university, are co-ed organizations that serve as social centers, host events, and invite guest speakers. Additionally, they serve as a place of community for upperclassmen. Five of the clubs have first-serve memberships called "sign-ins" and six clubs use a selective process, in which students must "bicker". This requires prospective members to undergo an interviewing process. Each eating club has a fee to join which ranges from around $9,000 to $10,000. As a result, Princeton increases financial aid for upperclassmen, and the eating clubs also offer financial assistance. Cumulatively, there are ten clubs located on Prospect Avenue—Cannon, Cap and Gown, Charter, Cloister, Colonial, Cottage, Ivy, Quadrangle, Tiger, and Tower—and one located on Washington Road—Terrace. Sixty-eight percent of upperclassmen are members of a club, with each one containing around 150 to 200 students
Princeton hosts around 500 recognized student organizations and several campus centers. The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) serves as Princeton's student government. The USG funds student organization events, sponsors campus events, and represents the undergraduate student body when convening with faculty and administration.

Founded in about 1765, the American Whig-Cliosophic Society is the nation's oldest collegiate political, literary, and debate society, and is the largest and oldest student organization on campus. The Whig-Clio Society has several subsidiary organizations, each specialized to different areas of politics: the Princeton Debate Panel, International Relations Council, Princeton Mock Trial, and Princeton Model Congress. The International Relations Council manages two Model United Nations conferences: the Princeton Diplomatic Invitational (PDI) for collegiate competition and the Princeton Model United Nations Conference (PMUNC) for high school competition.
There are several publications on campus and a radio station. Founded in 1876, The Daily Princetonian, otherwise known as The Prince, is the second oldest college daily student newspaper in the United States. Other publications include The Nassau Literary Review, the Princeton Tory, a campus journal of conservative thought, The Princeton Diplomat, the only student-run magazine on global affairs, the Princeton Political Review, the only multi-partisan political publication on campus, and the recently revived Princeton Progressive, the only left-leaning political publication on campus, among others. Princeton's WPRB (103.3 FM) radio station is the oldest licensed college radio station in the nation.

Princeton is home to a variety of performing arts and music groups. Many of the groups are represented by the Performing Arts Council. Dating back to 1883, the Princeton Triangle Club is America's oldest touring musical-comedy theater group. It performs its annual Triangle Show every fall at the 1,000 seat McCarter Theatre, as well as original musical comedies, revues, and other shows throughout campus. Princeton's oldest choir is the Glee Club, which began in 1874. The comedic scramble Tiger Band was formed in 1919 and plays at halftime shows and other events. Other groups include the Princeton University Orchestra, the flagship symphony orchestra group founded in 1896, and the Princeton Symphony Orchestra, both of which perform at Alexander Hall.
A cappella groups are a staple of campus life, with many holding concerts, informal shows, and arch sings. Arch sings are where a cappella performances are held in one of Princeton's many gothic arches. The oldest a cappella ensemble is the Nassoons, which were formed in 1941. All-male groups include the Tigertones (1946) and Footnotes (1959); all-female groups include the Tigerlilies (1971), Tigressions (1981), Wildcats (1987); the oldest coed a cappella group in the Ivy League is the Princeton Katzenjammers (1973), which was followed by the Roaring 20 (1983) and Shere Khan (1994).
Princeton features several campus centers for students that provide resources and information for students with certain identities. These include the Center for Jewish Life, the Davis International Center, the Carl A. Fields Center for Equality and Cultural Understanding, the Women's Center, and the LGBT Center. The Frist Campus Center and the Campus Club are additional facilities for the entire campus community that hold various activities and events.
Princeton features 15 chaplaincies and multiple religious student groups. The following faiths are represented on campus: Baha'i, Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Judaism, Islam, Sikhism, and Unitarian Universalism.
Princeton students partake in a wide variety of campus traditions, both past and present. Current traditions Princeton students celebrate include the ceremonial bonfire, which takes place on the Cannon Green behind Nassau Hall. It is held only if Princeton beats both Harvard University and Yale University at football in the same season. Another tradition is the use of traditional college cheers at events and reunions, like the "Locomotive", which dates back to before 1894. Princeton students abide by the tradition of never exiting the campus through FitzRandolph Gates until one graduates. According to tradition, anyone who exits campus before their graduation will not graduate. A more controversial tradition is Newman's Day, where some students attempt to drink 24 beers in the 24 hours of April 24. According to The New York Times, "the day got its name from an apocryphal quote attributed to Paul Newman: '24 beers in a case, 24 hours in a day. Coincidence? I think not.'" Newman has spoken out against the tradition. One of the biggest traditions celebrated annually are Reunions, which are massive annual gatherings of alumni. At Reunions, a traditional parade of alumni and their families, known as the "P-rade", process through the campus.
Princeton also has several traditions that have faded into the past. One of them was clapper theft, the act of climbing to the top of Nassau Hall to steal the bell clapper, which rings to signal the start of classes on the first day of the school year. For safety reasons, the clapper was permanently removed. Another was the Nude Olympics, an annual nude and partially nude frolic in Holder Courtyard that used to take place during the first snow of the winter. Started in the early 1970s, the Nude Olympics went co-educational in 1979 and gained much notoriety with the American press. Due to issues of sexual harassment and safety reasons, the administration banned the Olympics in 2000 to the disappointment of students.
"Old Nassau" has been Princeton University's school song since 1859, when it was written that year by freshman Harlan Page Peck. It was originally published in the Nassau Literary Magazine, where it won the magazine's prize for best college song. After an unsuccessful attempt at singing it to Auld Lang Syne's melody, Karl Langlotz, a Princeton professor, wrote the music for it. In 1987, the university changed the gendered lyrics of "Old Nassau" to reflect the school's co-educational student body.
Tiger Transit is the bus system of the university, mostly open to the public and linking university campuses and areas around Princeton; routes are updated upon community feedback. The service sees an average of 3,500 boardings per day on weekdays and 1,100 boardings per day on weekends. NJ Transit provides bus service on the 600, 606 and 609 lines and rail service on the Dinky, a small commuter train that provides service to the Princeton Junction Station. Coach USA, through their subsidiary Suburban Transit, provides bus service to New York City and other destinations in New Jersey.
Princeton has made significant progress in expanding the diversity of its student body in recent years. The 2021 admitted freshman class was one of the most diverse in the school's history, with 68% of students identifying as students of color. The university has worked to increase its enrollment of first-generation and low-income students in recent years. The median family income of Princeton students is $186,100, with 72% of students coming from the top 20% highest-earning families. In 2017, 22% of freshman qualified for federal Pell Grants, above the 16% average for the top 150 schools ranked by the U.S. News & World Report; nationwide, the average was 44%. Based on data in a 2019 article in The Daily Princetonian, 10% of students hail from Bloomberg's 2018 list of "100 richest places", and that the top 20% of high schools send as many students to Princeton as the bottom 80%.
In 1999, 10% of the student body was Jewish, a percentage lower than those at other Ivy League schools. 16% of the student body was Jewish in 1985; the number decreased by 40% from 1985 to 1999. This decline prompted The Daily Princetonian to write a series of articles on the decline and its reasons. The New York Observer wrote that Princeton was "long dogged by a reputation for anti-Semitism" and that this history as well as Princeton's elite status caused the university and its community to feel sensitivity towards the decrease of Jewish students. In the Observer, several theories are proposed for the drop, ranging from campus culture to changing admission policies to national patterns. As of 2021, according to the Center for Jewish Life on campus, the university has approximately 700 Jewish students. As of 2024, according to Hillel International, there are approximately 450 Jewish undergraduates at Princeton, comprising about 8.6% of the undergraduate student body. In addition, about 250 Jewish graduate students are enrolled at Princeton, comprising about 7.9% of the graduate student body. Consequently, as American Jews are accounting for 2.4% of the total US population, there are 358% more Jews among students at Princeton than Jews among the total US population, which makes Jewish students the best represented minority group at Princeton.
Starting in 1967, African American enrollment surged from 1.7% to 10% but has stagnated ever since. Bruce M. Wright was admitted into the university in 1936 as the first African American; however, his admission was a mistake and when he got to campus he was asked to leave. Three years later Wright asked the dean for an explanation on his dismissal and the dean suggested to him that "a member of your race might feel very much alone" at Princeton University. Princeton would not admit its first Black students until in 1945 when Princeton instituted the V-12 program on campus. In 1947, John L. Howard, one of the four naval cadets admitted to the program, would become the first Black student to graduate with a bachelor's degree.
Princeton supports organized athletics at three levels: varsity intercollegiate, club intercollegiate, and intramural. It also provides "a variety of physical education and recreational programs" for members of the Princeton community. Most undergraduates participate in athletics at some level. Princeton's colors are orange and black. The school's athletes are known as the Tigers, and the mascot is a tiger. The Princeton administration considered naming the mascot in 2007, but the effort was dropped in the face of alumni and student opposition.
Princeton hosts 37 men's and women's varsity sports. Princeton is an NCAA Division I school, with its athletic conference being the Ivy League. Its rowing teams compete in the Eastern Association of Rowing Colleges, and its men's volleyball team competes in the Eastern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association. Princeton's sailing team, though a club sport, competes at the varsity level in the MAISA conference of the Inter-Collegiate Sailing Association.
Princeton's football team competes in the Football Championship Subdivision of NCAA Division I with the rest of the Ivy League. Princeton played against Rutgers University in the first intercollegiate football game in the U.S. on November 6, 1869; Rutgers won the game. From 1877 until at least 1903, Princeton played football using rugby rules.
As of 2021, Princeton claims 28 national football championships, which would make it the most of any school, although the NCAA only recognizes 15 of the wins. With its last win being in 2018, Princeton has won 12 Ivy League championships. In 1951, Dick Kazmaier won Princeton its only Heisman Trophy, the last to come from the Ivy League.
The men's basketball program is noted for its success under Pete Carril, the head coach from 1967 to 1996. During this time, Princeton won 13 Ivy League titles and made 11 NCAA tournament appearances. Carril introduced the Princeton offense, an offensive strategy that has since been adopted by a number of college and professional basketball teams. Carril's final victory at Princeton came when the Tigers beat UCLA, the defending national champion, in the opening round of the 1996 NCAA tournament. On December 14, 2005, Princeton tied the record for the fewest points in a Division I game since the institution of the three-point line in 1986–87, when the Tigers scored 21 points in a loss against Monmouth University.
Princeton women's soccer team advanced to the NCAA Division I Women's Soccer Championship semi-finals in 2004, becoming the first Ivy League team to do so in a 64 team setting. The men's soccer team was coached from 1984 to 1995 by Princeton alumnus and future United States men's national team manager Bob Bradley, who lead the Tigers to win two Ivy League titles and make an appearance at the NCAA Final Four in 1993. Princeton's men's lacrosse program undertook a period of notable success from 1992 to 2001, during which time it won six national championships. In 2012, its field hockey team became the first in the Ivy League to win a national championship.
Princeton has won at least one Ivy League title every year since 1957, and it became the first university in its conference to win over 500 Ivy League athletic championships. From 1896 to 2018, 113 athletes from Princeton have competed in the Olympics, winning 19 gold medals, 24 silver medals, and 23 bronze medals.
In addition to varsity sports, Princeton hosts 37 club sports teams, which are open to all Princeton students of any skill level. Teams compete against other collegiate teams both in the Northeast and nationally. The intramural sports program is also available on campus, which schedules competitions between residential colleges, eating clubs, independent groups, students, and faculty and staff. Several leagues with differing levels of competitiveness are available.
In the fall, freshman and sophomores participate in the intramural athletic competition called Cane Spree. Although the event centers on cane wrestling, freshman and sophomores compete in other sports and competitions. This commemorates a time in the 1870s when sophomores, angry with the freshmen who strutted around with fancy canes, stole all of the canes from the freshmen, hitting them with their own canes in the process.
U.S. Presidents James Madison and Woodrow Wilson and vice presidents Aaron Burr, George M. Dallas, and John Breckinridge graduated from Princeton, as did Michelle Obama, the former First Lady of the United States. Former Chief Justice of the United States Oliver Ellsworth was an alumnus, as are current U.S. Supreme Court Associate Justices Samuel Alito, Elena Kagan, and Sonia Sotomayor. Alumnus Jerome Powell was appointed as Chair of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board in 2018. Pete Hegseth, 29th U.S. Secretary of Defense, is a 2003 graduate of Princeton.
Princeton graduates played a major role in the American Revolution, including the first and last Colonels to die on the Patriot side Philip Johnston and Nathaniel Scudder, as well as the highest ranking civilian leader on the British side David Mathews.
Notable graduates of Princeton's School of Engineering and Applied Science include Apollo astronaut and commander of Apollo 12 Pete Conrad, Amazon CEO and founder Jeff Bezos, former chairman of Alphabet Inc. Eric Schmidt, and Lisa P. Jackson, former Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Actors Jimmy Stewart, Wentworth Miller, José Ferrer, David Duchovny, and Brooke Shields graduated from Princeton, as did composers Edward T. Cone and Milton Babbitt. Soccer-player alumna, Diana Matheson, scored the game-winning goal that earned Canada their Olympic bronze medal in 2012.

Writers Booth Tarkington, F. Scott Fitzgerald, and Eugene O'Neill attended but did not graduate. Writer Selden Edwards and poet W. S. Merwin graduated from Princeton. American novelist Jodi Picoult and author David Remnick graduated. Pulitzer prize-winning journalists Barton Gellman and Lorraine Adams, as well as Nobel Peace Prize laureate Maria Ressa, are Princeton alumni. William P. Ross, Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation and founding editor of the Cherokee Advocate, graduated in 1844.
Notable graduate alumni include Allen Shenstone, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, Thornton Wilder, Richard Feynman, Lee Iacocca, John Nash, Alonzo Church, Alan Turing, Terence Tao, Edward Witten, John Milnor, John Bardeen, Steven Weinberg, John Tate, and David Petraeus. Royals such as Prince Moulay Hicham of Morocco, Prince Turki bin Faisal Al Saud, and Queen Noor of Jordan attended Princeton.
As of 2021, notable current faculty members include Angus Deaton, Robert Keohane, Edward W. Felten, Anthony Grafton, Peter Singer, Jim Peebles, Manjul Bhargava, Brian Kernighan, Betsy Levy Paluck and Robert P. George. Notable former faculty members include John Witherspoon, Walter Kaufmann, John von Neumann, Ben Bernanke, Paul Krugman, Joseph Henry, Toni Morrison, Joyce Carol Oates, Michael Mullen, Andrew Wiles, Jhumpa Lahiri, Cornel West, Daniel Kahneman, and alumnus Woodrow Wilson.
Albert Einstein, though on the faculty at the Institute for Advanced Study rather than at Princeton, came to be associated with the university through frequent lectures and visits on the campus.
Princeton University is widely considered to be an institution that affiliates with and produces some of the most elite members of society. The university's reputation has made it a frequent reference in media.

This Side of Paradise (1920): In F. Scott Fitzgerald's debut novel, the narrator, Amory Blaine details his life at Princeton, dabbling in literature and unfulfilled romances.
A Beautiful Mind (2001): A biographical film centered around the award-winning mathematician, John Nash, featuring him studying for his PhD at Princeton in the first part of the film.
A Cinderella Story (2004): The main love interest, Austin Ames dreams of becoming a writer and gets accepted into Princeton.
The Rule of Four (2004): A thriller novel by Ian Caldwell and Dustin Thomason about four Princeton seniors: Tom, Paul, Charlie and Gil try to solve the mystery of a coded manuscript.
Never Have I Ever (2020): The protagonist, Devi Vishwakumar gets accepted into Princeton.
Oppenheimer (2023): The biographical film tells the story of J. Robert Oppenheimer, the theoretical physicist who led the Manhattan Project during World War II. It featured Princeton as Oppenheimer was the director of Princeton's Institute for Advanced Study (IAS).
Across the Spider-Verse (2023): Princeton is mentioned as the dream school of Miles Morales, the protagonist.
Big Three (colleges)
Higher education in New Jersey
Ivy League
Princeton University Department of Physics
The Princeton University Summer Journalism Program
 Media related to Princeton University at Wikimedia Commons
 Quotations related to Princeton University at Wikiquote
 Works on the topic Princeton University at Wikisource
Official website 
Princeton Athletics websiteA dining club (UK) or eating club (US) is a social group, usually requiring membership (which may, or may not be available only to certain people), which meets for dinners and discussion on a regular basis. They may also often have guest speakers.

United Kingdom
A dining club differs from a gentlemen's club in that it does not have permanent premises, often changing the location of its meetings and dinners.
Clubs may limit their membership to those who meet highly specific membership requirements. For example, the Coningsby Club requires members to have been a part of either OUCA or CUCA, the Conservative Associations at the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge respectively. Others may require applicants to pass an interview, or simply pay a membership fee.
Early dining clubs include the Pitt Club, the Bullingdon Club, and the 16' Club.

United States
In the United States, similar social clubs are called eating clubs.  Eating clubs date to the late 19th and early 20th centuries and are intended to allow college students to enjoy meals and pleasant discourse.  Some clubs are referred to as bicker clubs because of the process of bickering over which applicants to accept as members. Replaced largely by the modern fraternity and sorority system, eating clubs are now limited to a few colleges and universities, most prominently at Princeton University, though other universities including Stanford University, Davidson College, the University of Mount Olive, and Reed College have the presence of eating clubs.
Dining clubs often have reciprocity with other dining clubs across the nation or even worldwide. Some are able to arrange reciprocity with other private social clubs with more facilities besides dining such as overnight guest rooms and a gym. Examples of such social clubs include the Penn Club of New York City, which has reciprocity with the India House Club at 1 Hanover Square.

List of dining clubs
This list is incomplete.
Date of founding in brackets.

Fictional
The Thursday Club, a monthly dining club, features in the novel The Three Hostages by John Buchan.
The Twelve True Fishermen is the name of a fictional club in the eponymous short story by G. K. Chesterton in which his detective Father Brown solves the riddle of the disappearance of the club's silver.
The annual dinner of The Ten for Aristology is the scene of a murder in the 1960 Nero Wolfe story Poison à la Carte,

See also
Eating clubs at Princeton University
Final clubs at Harvard
Gentlemen's club
Stanford Eating Clubs
Supper club
Syracuse Eating Club

References
External links
Discussion on "What are eating clubs"
Article from The Princeton Companion on formation of Princeton's eating clubs
Historical article on Princeton's eating clubs
A dining club differs from a gentlemen's club in that it does not have permanent premises, often changing the location of its meetings and dinners.
Clubs may limit their membership to those who meet highly specific membership requirements. For example, the Coningsby Club requires members to have been a part of either OUCA or CUCA, the Conservative Associations at the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge respectively. Others may require applicants to pass an interview, or simply pay a membership fee.
Early dining clubs include the Pitt Club, the Bullingdon Club, and the 16' Club.
In the United States, similar social clubs are called eating clubs.  Eating clubs date to the late 19th and early 20th centuries and are intended to allow college students to enjoy meals and pleasant discourse.  Some clubs are referred to as bicker clubs because of the process of bickering over which applicants to accept as members. Replaced largely by the modern fraternity and sorority system, eating clubs are now limited to a few colleges and universities, most prominently at Princeton University, though other universities including Stanford University, Davidson College, the University of Mount Olive, and Reed College have the presence of eating clubs.
Dining clubs often have reciprocity with other dining clubs across the nation or even worldwide. Some are able to arrange reciprocity with other private social clubs with more facilities besides dining such as overnight guest rooms and a gym. Examples of such social clubs include the Penn Club of New York City, which has reciprocity with the India House Club at 1 Hanover Square.
This list is incomplete.
Date of founding in brackets.
The Thursday Club, a monthly dining club, features in the novel The Three Hostages by John Buchan.
The Twelve True Fishermen is the name of a fictional club in the eponymous short story by G. K. Chesterton in which his detective Father Brown solves the riddle of the disappearance of the club's silver.
The annual dinner of The Ten for Aristology is the scene of a murder in the 1960 Nero Wolfe story Poison à la Carte,
Eating clubs at Princeton University
Final clubs at Harvard
Gentlemen's club
Stanford Eating Clubs
Supper club
Syracuse Eating Club
Discussion on "What are eating clubs"
Article from The Princeton Companion on formation of Princeton's eating clubs
Historical article on Princeton's eating clubsPrinceton University Library is the main library system of Princeton University. With holdings of more than 7 million books, 6 million microforms, and 48,000 linear feet of manuscripts, it is among the largest libraries in the world by number of volumes. The main headquarters of the university system is the Harvey S. Firestone Memorial Library building, named after tire magnate Harvey Firestone. Additionally, Princeton is part of the Research Collections and Preservation Consortium (ReCAP) along with Columbia Libraries, Harvard Library and New York Public Library.

Firestone Library
Firestone Library opened in 1948, as the first large American university library constructed after World War II. It was designed by architects Robert B. O'Connor and Walter H. Kilham Jr. Roughly 1.5 million volumes were moved during the summer of 1948 from East Pyne Hall, which until then had served as the University's main library. The library building was expanded in 1971 and again in 1988 and currently has more than 70 miles (110 km) of bookshelves, making Firestone one of the largest open-stack libraries in existence. Though not the largest university library in the world, the library has more books per enrolled student than that of any other university in the United States.
The Firestone building itself does not appear very large from the outside, because most of its books are stored in three partially underground levels that extend beyond the footprint of the main building. Firestone has four smaller above-ground floors. Princeton's book collection has outgrown Firestone's present capacity. Therefore, volumes relating to many academic subjects are no longer housed at Firestone, but at approximately a dozen other library buildings or spaces located around the campus.
Firestone contains many study spaces, most prominently the Trustee Reading Room (an open study space bounded on one side by glass panels containing the names of all present and past university trustees and presidents) and the atrium. It contains a small number of the original carrels (offices about the size of a large closet) reserved for faculty, graduate students, and undergraduate seniors working on their theses. Many academic departments also maintain seminar and study rooms within Firestone.

Special collections
In addition to its open-stack collections, Firestone also houses the Department of Special Collections, which includes The Scheide Library, a now permanent part of the library's collections following the death of William H. Scheide. This marks the largest gift in University's history. It also includes the Cotsen Children's Library, an extensive collection presented to the library by its owner Lloyd E. Cotsen in 1997.
Also included in special collections are the autographed manuscript of F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby, Mario Vargas Llosa's Papers, Toni Morrison's Papers, and George F. Kennan's Long Telegram. Another notable collection is a vellum fragment of an original Gutenberg Bible.
Since the 1970s, the library has collected Latin American and Spanish ephemera to document with non-governmental primary sources the political developments, a rare emphasis on systematically acquiring these materials. In early 2015, the Digital Archive of Latin American and Caribbean Ephemera became available, thanks to a grant from the Council on Library and Information Resources. This expands access to some of the items not previously catalogued in sub-collections and microfilmed.
The library also contains a social science data center, and a variety of library services.

Other libraries
Other campus libraries include the following:

Architecture Library
East Asian Library and Gest Collection
Engineering Library
Lewis Science Library
Marquand Library of Art and Archaeology
Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library
Furth Plasma Physics Library
Mendel Music Library
Scheide Library
Stokes Library for Public and International Affairs & Population Research
In addition, ReCAP (Research Collections and Preservation Consortium) and two annexes, the Forrestal Annex (Annex A) and Fine Hall Annex (Annex B), located at the Princeton University Forrestal campus, are used to store volumes and materials that are less frequently used.

Lewis Science Library, designed by Frank Gehry, is the campus' newest library building, having opened in the Fall of 2008. Lewis consolidates research collections and staff for the physical and life sciences, as well as maps and geospatial information.

Access to library services
Currently only registered students, alumni, university faculty, staff, their spouses, domestic partners and dependents, students of Princeton Theological Seminary, the Institute for Advanced Study, and visiting faculty are permitted open (free) access and borrowing privileges in the Princeton University library system. Patrons of the Princeton Public Library may borrow daily access to Firestone.  In general, non-university patrons may use the library for research but are not given borrowing privileges and must purchase an access card in order to enter and use the library facilities.

See also
Google Books Library Project
Princeton Papyri
The Ocean Full of Bowling Balls – a J. D. Salinger story held only in this library

References
External links

Official website
Research Guides on Princeton University Library website
Library History on Princeton University Library website
Rare books curator reflects on libraries' past and future (archived 2007) by Elizabeth Linder, Daily Princetonian, 2004
Firestone Library opened in 1948, as the first large American university library constructed after World War II. It was designed by architects Robert B. O'Connor and Walter H. Kilham Jr. Roughly 1.5 million volumes were moved during the summer of 1948 from East Pyne Hall, which until then had served as the University's main library. The library building was expanded in 1971 and again in 1988 and currently has more than 70 miles (110 km) of bookshelves, making Firestone one of the largest open-stack libraries in existence. Though not the largest university library in the world, the library has more books per enrolled student than that of any other university in the United States.
The Firestone building itself does not appear very large from the outside, because most of its books are stored in three partially underground levels that extend beyond the footprint of the main building. Firestone has four smaller above-ground floors. Princeton's book collection has outgrown Firestone's present capacity. Therefore, volumes relating to many academic subjects are no longer housed at Firestone, but at approximately a dozen other library buildings or spaces located around the campus.
Firestone contains many study spaces, most prominently the Trustee Reading Room (an open study space bounded on one side by glass panels containing the names of all present and past university trustees and presidents) and the atrium. It contains a small number of the original carrels (offices about the size of a large closet) reserved for faculty, graduate students, and undergraduate seniors working on their theses. Many academic departments also maintain seminar and study rooms within Firestone.
In addition to its open-stack collections, Firestone also houses the Department of Special Collections, which includes The Scheide Library, a now permanent part of the library's collections following the death of William H. Scheide. This marks the largest gift in University's history. It also includes the Cotsen Children's Library, an extensive collection presented to the library by its owner Lloyd E. Cotsen in 1997.
Also included in special collections are the autographed manuscript of F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby, Mario Vargas Llosa's Papers, Toni Morrison's Papers, and George F. Kennan's Long Telegram. Another notable collection is a vellum fragment of an original Gutenberg Bible.
Since the 1970s, the library has collected Latin American and Spanish ephemera to document with non-governmental primary sources the political developments, a rare emphasis on systematically acquiring these materials. In early 2015, the Digital Archive of Latin American and Caribbean Ephemera became available, thanks to a grant from the Council on Library and Information Resources. This expands access to some of the items not previously catalogued in sub-collections and microfilmed.
The library also contains a social science data center, and a variety of library services.
Other campus libraries include the following:

Architecture Library
East Asian Library and Gest Collection
Engineering Library
Lewis Science Library
Marquand Library of Art and Archaeology
Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library
Furth Plasma Physics Library
Mendel Music Library
Scheide Library
Stokes Library for Public and International Affairs & Population Research
In addition, ReCAP (Research Collections and Preservation Consortium) and two annexes, the Forrestal Annex (Annex A) and Fine Hall Annex (Annex B), located at the Princeton University Forrestal campus, are used to store volumes and materials that are less frequently used.

Lewis Science Library, designed by Frank Gehry, is the campus' newest library building, having opened in the Fall of 2008. Lewis consolidates research collections and staff for the physical and life sciences, as well as maps and geospatial information.
Currently only registered students, alumni, university faculty, staff, their spouses, domestic partners and dependents, students of Princeton Theological Seminary, the Institute for Advanced Study, and visiting faculty are permitted open (free) access and borrowing privileges in the Princeton University library system. Patrons of the Princeton Public Library may borrow daily access to Firestone.  In general, non-university patrons may use the library for research but are not given borrowing privileges and must purchase an access card in order to enter and use the library facilities.
Google Books Library Project
Princeton Papyri
The Ocean Full of Bowling Balls – a J. D. Salinger story held only in this library

Official website
Research Guides on Princeton University Library website
Library History on Princeton University Library website
Rare books curator reflects on libraries' past and future (archived 2007) by Elizabeth Linder, Daily Princetonian, 2004Nassau Hall, colloquially known as Old Nassau, is the oldest building at Princeton University in Princeton, Mercer County, New Jersey, United States. In 1783 it served as the United States Capitol building for four months. At the time it was built in 1756, Nassau Hall was the largest building in colonial New Jersey and the largest academic building in the American colonies.
The university, originally known as the College of New Jersey, held classes for one year in Elizabeth and nine years in Newark before the hall was completed in 1756. Designed originally by Robert Smith, the building was subsequently remodeled by notable American architects Benjamin Latrobe, after the 1802 fire, and John Notman, after the 1855 fire.  In the early years of Princeton University, Nassau Hall accommodated classrooms, a library, a chapel, and residential space for students and faculty. It housed the university's first Department of Psychology.
During the American Revolutionary War, Nassau Hall was possessed by both British and American forces and suffered considerable damage, especially during the Battle of Princeton on January 3, 1777.  From June 30 to November 4, 1783, Princeton was the provisional capital of the United States, and Nassau Hall served as its seat of government. The Congress of the Confederation met in the building's library on the second floor. According to Princeton University, "Here Congress congratulated George Washington on his successful termination of the war, received the news of the signing of the definitive treaty of peace with Great Britain, and welcomed the first foreign minister—from the Netherlands—accredited to the United States."
At present, Nassau Hall houses Princeton University's administrative offices, including that of the  university's president. Old Nassau refers affectionately to the building and serves as a metonym for the university as a whole. The U.S. Department of the Interior designated Nassau Hall a National Historic Landmark in 1960, "signifying its importance in the Revolutionary War and in the history of the United States."

Name
When the building was constructed in 1754, the college's board wanted to name it after Jonathan Belcher, the royal governor of New Jersey, but he declined, preferring it to be dedicated "to the immortal memory of the glorious King William III," who hailed from the Dutch House of Orange-Nassau. As a result, the building is known as Nassau Hall.

History
The New Jersey Legislature met for the first time in Nassau Hall on August 27, 1776. British forces occupied Nassau Hall in 1776, and the Continental Army attacked the building during the Battle of Princeton on January 3, 1777. Three cannonballs were fired at the building, but only two made contact. One bounced off the south side of the building; the damage can still be seen today. Another cannonball reportedly flew through a window in the faculty room and "decapitated" a portrait of George II of Great Britain. The cannonball was said to have come from a gun in the artillery company commanded by Alexander Hamilton, who had been rejected by Princeton when he first came to the colonies. The result of the battle was a decisive Patriot victory, and Nassau Hall was retaken by the Americans.
The Congress of the Confederation convened in Nassau Hall for a little more than four months (from June 30, 1783, to November 4, 1783). The normal location in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania had to be vacated because of a mutiny by Continental Army soldiers. Starting in 1869, each graduation class adds a new sprig of ivy to grow up the walls of the building. The first U.S. commemorative postage stamp printed on colored paper honored Nassau Hall on its bicentennial. It depicted a front view of Nassau Hall. It was denominated at the first class rate of 3 cents and was on orange paper. It was first issued at Princeton, New Jersey, on September 22, 1956.

Princeton's alma mater
The song Old Nassau was adopted as Princeton University's alma mater (school song) in 1859.  The lyrics were written by Harlan Page Peck, a member of Princeton's class of 1862, and first published in the March 1859 issue of Nassau Literary Magazine.  The music, originally to be set to the tune of Auld Lang Syne, proved unworkable, and Karl A. Langlotz, a professor of music at Princeton who had studied composition under Franz Liszt, wrote a new melody for the song's lyrics.

Architecture
As described in 1760 in the New American Magazine, "The simple interior design is shown in the plan, where a central corridor provided communication with the students' chambers and recitation rooms, the entrances, and the common prayer hall; and on the second floor, with the library over the central north entrance. The prayer hall was two stories high, measured 32 by 40 feet, and had a balcony at the north end which could be reached from the second-story entry. Partially below ground level, though dimly lighted by windows, was the cellar, which served as kitchen, dining area (beneath the prayer hall), and storeroom. In all there were probably forty rooms for the students, not including those added later in the cellar when a moat was dug to allow additional light and air into that dungeon."
On March 6, 1802, a fire devastated the interior of the hall, leaving only the exterior walls standing and destroying nearly all contents including 2,900 out of the library's 3,000 books. Benjamin Henry Latrobe, the first architect professionally trained in the United States and known for his work in the Federal style, oversaw the reconstruction and refused his share of the $42,000 that had been raised for the effort. "The horizontal lintels over the three entrances at the front of the building were replaced with triangular pediments, and the circular window in the central pediment rising from the eves (sic) was replaced with a fanlight."
The hall was gutted by fire once again in March 1855. Reconstruction was carried out by John Notman of Philadelphia in his characteristic Italian Renaissance style, adding an often-criticized cupola and towers along with engineering improvements. Many of his architectural flourishes were removed in later renovations.

See also
National Register of Historic Places listings in Mercer County, New Jersey
List of the oldest buildings in New Jersey
FitzRandolph Gate

References
Further reading
Leitch, Alexander. A Princeton Companion. (Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press, 1978).

External links

A Princeton Companion article on the Hall
Princetoniana: Old Nassau
Princetoniana: Nassau Hall
Inscription on FitzRandolph Gate facing Nassau Hall
Princeton University
When the building was constructed in 1754, the college's board wanted to name it after Jonathan Belcher, the royal governor of New Jersey, but he declined, preferring it to be dedicated "to the immortal memory of the glorious King William III," who hailed from the Dutch House of Orange-Nassau. As a result, the building is known as Nassau Hall.
The New Jersey Legislature met for the first time in Nassau Hall on August 27, 1776. British forces occupied Nassau Hall in 1776, and the Continental Army attacked the building during the Battle of Princeton on January 3, 1777. Three cannonballs were fired at the building, but only two made contact. One bounced off the south side of the building; the damage can still be seen today. Another cannonball reportedly flew through a window in the faculty room and "decapitated" a portrait of George II of Great Britain. The cannonball was said to have come from a gun in the artillery company commanded by Alexander Hamilton, who had been rejected by Princeton when he first came to the colonies. The result of the battle was a decisive Patriot victory, and Nassau Hall was retaken by the Americans.
The Congress of the Confederation convened in Nassau Hall for a little more than four months (from June 30, 1783, to November 4, 1783). The normal location in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania had to be vacated because of a mutiny by Continental Army soldiers. Starting in 1869, each graduation class adds a new sprig of ivy to grow up the walls of the building. The first U.S. commemorative postage stamp printed on colored paper honored Nassau Hall on its bicentennial. It depicted a front view of Nassau Hall. It was denominated at the first class rate of 3 cents and was on orange paper. It was first issued at Princeton, New Jersey, on September 22, 1956.
The song Old Nassau was adopted as Princeton University's alma mater (school song) in 1859.  The lyrics were written by Harlan Page Peck, a member of Princeton's class of 1862, and first published in the March 1859 issue of Nassau Literary Magazine.  The music, originally to be set to the tune of Auld Lang Syne, proved unworkable, and Karl A. Langlotz, a professor of music at Princeton who had studied composition under Franz Liszt, wrote a new melody for the song's lyrics.
As described in 1760 in the New American Magazine, "The simple interior design is shown in the plan, where a central corridor provided communication with the students' chambers and recitation rooms, the entrances, and the common prayer hall; and on the second floor, with the library over the central north entrance. The prayer hall was two stories high, measured 32 by 40 feet, and had a balcony at the north end which could be reached from the second-story entry. Partially below ground level, though dimly lighted by windows, was the cellar, which served as kitchen, dining area (beneath the prayer hall), and storeroom. In all there were probably forty rooms for the students, not including those added later in the cellar when a moat was dug to allow additional light and air into that dungeon."
On March 6, 1802, a fire devastated the interior of the hall, leaving only the exterior walls standing and destroying nearly all contents including 2,900 out of the library's 3,000 books. Benjamin Henry Latrobe, the first architect professionally trained in the United States and known for his work in the Federal style, oversaw the reconstruction and refused his share of the $42,000 that had been raised for the effort. "The horizontal lintels over the three entrances at the front of the building were replaced with triangular pediments, and the circular window in the central pediment rising from the eves (sic) was replaced with a fanlight."
The hall was gutted by fire once again in March 1855. Reconstruction was carried out by John Notman of Philadelphia in his characteristic Italian Renaissance style, adding an often-criticized cupola and towers along with engineering improvements. Many of his architectural flourishes were removed in later renovations.
National Register of Historic Places listings in Mercer County, New Jersey
List of the oldest buildings in New Jersey
FitzRandolph Gate
Leitch, Alexander. A Princeton Companion. (Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press, 1978).

A Princeton Companion article on the Hall
Princetoniana: Old Nassau
Princetoniana: Nassau Hall
Inscription on FitzRandolph Gate facing Nassau Hall
Princeton UniversityThe Ivy League is an American collegiate athletic conference of eight private research universities in the Northeastern United States. It participates in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I, and in football, in the Football Championship Subdivision (FCS). The term Ivy League is used more broadly to refer to the eight schools that belong to the league, which are globally renowned as elite colleges associated with academic excellence, highly selective admissions, and social elitism. The term was used as early as 1933, and it became official in 1954 following the formation of the Ivy League athletic conference. At times, they have also been referred to as the "Ancient Eight".
The eight members of the Ivy League are Brown University, Columbia University, Cornell University, Dartmouth College, Harvard University, University of Pennsylvania, Princeton University, and Yale University. The conference headquarters is in Princeton, New Jersey. All of the "Ivies" except Cornell were founded during the colonial period and therefore make up seven of the nine colonial colleges. The other two colonial colleges, Queen's College (now Rutgers University) and the College of William & Mary, became public institutions.

Overview
Ivy League schools are some of the most prestigious universities in the world. All eight universities place in the top 18 of the 2024 U.S. News & World Report National Universities ranking. U.S. News has named a member of the Ivy League as the best national university every year since 2001: as of 2020, Princeton eleven times, Harvard twice, and the two schools tied for first five times. In the 2024–2025 U.S. News & World Report Best Global University Ranking, six Ivies rank in the top 20: Harvard (#1), Columbia (#9), Yale (#10), Penn (#14), Princeton (#18), and Cornell (#19) —ranks that U.S. News says are based on "indicators that measure their academic research performance and their global and regional reputations." All eight Ivy League schools are members of the Association of American Universities, the most prestigious alliance of American research universities.
Undergraduate enrollments range from about 4,500 to about 15,000, larger than most liberal arts colleges and smaller than most state university systems. Total enrollment, which includes graduate students, ranges from approximately 6,600 at Dartmouth to over 20,000 at Columbia, Cornell, Harvard, and Penn. Ivy League financial endowments range from Brown's $6.9 billion to Harvard's $53.2 billion, the largest financial endowment of any academic institution in the world.
The Ivy League is similar to other groups of universities in other countries, such as Oxbridge in England, the C9 League in China, the Écoles Normales Supérieures in France and the Imperial Universities in Japan.

Members
Ivy League universities have some of the largest university financial endowments in the world, allowing the universities to provide abundant resources for their academic programs, financial aid, and research endeavors. As of 2021, Harvard University had an endowment of $53.2 billion, the largest of any educational institution. Each university attracts millions of dollars in annual research funding from both the federal government and private sources.

Current schools
Former affiliate members
Before the 2000s, many of the Ivy League championships for men's and women's cross country, indoor and outdoor track & field, and swimming & diving were formatted as invitationals that many schools across the eastern United States would attend. In other sports, such as fencing, wrestling, men's and women's ice hockey, and men's and women's rowing, all of the Ivy League schools were members of other single-sport conferences and the top-performing Ivy League team would be crowned the champion.
The United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy were members of the Ivy League in many sports and were crowned as Ivy League champions while competing with Ivy League teams. Both schools left the conference in the early 2000s to join with their current conference, the Patriot League, except for football, for which they are affiliate members of the American Athletic Conference.

History
Institutional history
Note: Six of the eight Ivy League universities consider their founding dates to be simply the date that they received their charters and thus became legal corporations with the authority to grant academic degrees. Harvard University uses the date that the legislature of the Massachusetts Bay Colony formally allocated funds for the creation of a college. Harvard was chartered in 1650, although classes had been conducted for approximately a decade by then. The University of Pennsylvania's founding date is discussed in the footnote above. "Religious affiliation" refers to financial sponsorship, formal association with, and promotion by, a religious denomination. All of the institutions in the Ivy League are private (Cornell includes both private and state-supported schools) and are no longer associated with any religion.

Origin of the name
"Planting the ivy" was a customary class day ceremony at many colleges in the 1800s. In 1893, an alumnus told The Harvard Crimson, "In 1850, class day was placed upon the University Calendar...the custom of planting the ivy, while the ivy oration was delivered, arose about this time." At Penn, graduating seniors started the custom of planting ivy at a university building each spring in 1873 and that practice was formally designated as "Ivy Day" in 1874. Ivy planting ceremonies are recorded at Yale University, Simmons College, and Bryn Mawr College among other schools. Princeton's "Ivy Club" was founded in 1879.
The first usage of Ivy in reference to a group of colleges is from sportswriter Stanley Woodward (1895–1965).

A proportion of our eastern ivy colleges are meeting little fellows another Saturday before plunging into the strife and the turmoil.
The first known instance of the term Ivy League appeared in The Christian Science Monitor on February 7, 1935. Several sportswriters and other journalists used the term shortly later to refer to the older colleges, those along the northeastern seaboard of the United States, chiefly the nine institutions with origins dating from the colonial era, together with the United States Military Academy (West Point), the United States Naval Academy, and a few others. These schools were known for their long-standing traditions in intercollegiate athletics, often being the first schools to participate in such activities. At this time, however, none of these institutions made efforts to form an athletic league.
A common folk etymology attributes the name to the Roman numeral for four (IV), asserting that there was such a sports league originally with four members. The Morris Dictionary of Word and Phrase Origins helped to perpetuate this belief. The supposed "IV League" was formed over a century ago and consisted of Harvard, Yale, Princeton, and a fourth school that varies depending on who is telling the story. However, it is clear that Harvard, Princeton, Columbia, and Yale met on November 23, 1876, at the so-called Massasoit Convention to decide on uniform rules for the emerging game of American football, which rapidly spread.

Pre-Ivy League
Seven out of the eight Ivy League schools are Colonial Colleges: institutions of higher education founded prior to the American Revolution. Cornell, the exception to this commonality, was founded immediately after the American Civil War. These seven colleges served as the primary institutions of higher learning in British America's Northern and Middle Colonies. During the colonial era, the schools' faculties and founding boards were largely drawn from other Ivy League institutions. Also represented were British graduates from the University of Cambridge, the University of Oxford, the University of St. Andrews, and the University of Edinburgh.
The influence of these institutions on the founding of other colleges and universities is notable. This included the Southern public college movement which blossomed in the decades surrounding the turn of the 19th century when Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina and Virginia established what became the flagship universities of their respective states. In 1801, a majority of the first board of trustees for what became the University of South Carolina were Princeton alumni. They appointed Jonathan Maxcy, a Brown graduate, as the university's first president. Thomas Cooper, an Oxford alumnus and University of Pennsylvania faculty member, became the second president of the South Carolina college. The founders of the University of California came from Yale, hence Berkeley's colors are Yale Blue and California Gold. Stanford University has, since its earliest days, been nicknamed the "Cornell of the West": more than half of Stanford's initial faculty, as well as its first two presidents, had connections to Cornell as alumni or faculty.
A plurality of the Ivy League schools have identifiable Protestant roots. Harvard, Yale, and Dartmouth all held early associations with the Congregationalists. Princeton was financed by New Light Presbyterians, though originally led by a Congregationalist. Brown was founded by Baptists, though the university's charter stipulated that students should enjoy "full liberty of conscience." Columbia was founded by Anglicans, who composed 10 of the college's first 15 presidents. Penn and Cornell were officially nonsectarian, though Protestants were well represented in their respective founding. In the early nineteenth century, the specific purpose of training Calvinist ministers was handed off to theological seminaries, but a denominational tone and religious traditions including compulsory chapel often lasted well into the twentieth century.
"Ivy League" is sometimes used as a way of referring to an elite class, even though institutions such as Cornell University were among the first in the United States to reject racial and gender discrimination in their admissions policies. This dates back to at least 1935. Novels and memoirs attest this sense, as a social elite; to some degree independent of the actual schools.

History of the athletic league
19th century
In 1870, the nation's first formal athletic league was created in 1870 with the formation of the Rowing Association of American Colleges (RAAC), composed exclusively of Ivy League universities. RAAC hosted a national championship in rowing  from 1870 to 1894.
The first Harvard vs Yale rugby football contest was held in 1875, two years after the inaugural Princeton–Yale rugby football contest. Harvard athlete Nathaniel Curtis challenged Yale's captain, William Arnold to a rugby-style game.
Program for the "Foot Ball Match", Harvard v Yale, the first intercollegiate game. It is considered the first rugby game between Ivy League teams. The game was played at Hamilton Park, a venue in New Haven, Connecticut (located at the intersection of Whalley Avenue and West Park Avenue). The two teams played with 15 players (rugby) on a side instead of 11 (soccer) as Yale would have preferred.
In 1881, Penn, Harvard College, Haverford College, Princeton University (then known as College of New Jersey), and Columbia University (then known as Columbia College) formed The Intercollegiate Cricket Association, which Cornell University later joined. Penn won The Intercollegiate Cricket Association championship 23 times, including 18 solo victories and three shared with Haverford and Harvard, one shared with Haverford and Cornell, and one shared with just Haverford, during the 44 years that the Intercollegiate Cricket Association existed from 1881 through 1924.
In 1895, Cornell, Columbia, and Penn founded the Intercollegiate Rowing Association, which remains the oldest collegiate athletic organizing body in the US. To this day, the IRA Championship Regatta determines the national champion in rowing and all of the Ivies are regularly invited to compete.
A basketball league was later created in 1902, when Columbia, Cornell, Harvard, Yale, and Princeton formed the Eastern Intercollegiate Basketball League; they were later joined by Penn and Dartmouth.

20th century
In 1906, the organization that eventually became the National Collegiate Athletic Association was formed, primarily to formalize rules for the emerging sport of football. But of the 39 original member colleges in the NCAA, only two of them (Dartmouth and Penn) later became Ivies. In February 1903, intercollegiate wrestling began when Yale accepted a challenge from Columbia, published in the Yale News. The dual meet took place prior to a basketball game hosted by Columbia and resulted in a tie.
Two years later, Penn and Princeton also added wrestling teams, leading to the formation of the student-run Intercollegiate Wrestling Association, now the Eastern Intercollegiate Wrestling Association (EIWA), the first and oldest collegiate wrestling league in the US.

Though schools now in Ivy League (such as Yale and Columbia) played against each other in the 1880s, it was not until 1930 that Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Penn, Princeton and Yale formed the Eastern Intercollegiate Baseball League; they were later joined by Harvard, Brown, Army and Navy. Before the formal establishment of the Ivy League, there was an "unwritten and unspoken agreement among certain Eastern colleges on athletic relations". The earliest reference to the "Ivy colleges" came in 1933, when Stanley Woodward of the New York Herald Tribune used it to refer to the eight current members plus Army. In 1935, the Associated Press reported on an example of collaboration between the schools:

The athletic authorities of the so-called "Ivy League" are considering drastic measures to curb the increasing tendency toward riotous attacks on goal posts and other encroachments by spectators on playing fields.
Despite such collaboration, the universities did not seem to consider the formation of the league as imminent. Romeyn Berry, Cornell's manager of athletics, reported the situation in January 1936 as follows:

I can say with certainty that in the last five years—and markedly in the last three months—there has been a strong drift among the eight or ten universities of the East which see a good deal of one another in sport toward a closer bond of confidence and cooperation and toward the formation of a common front against the threat of a breakdown in the ideals of amateur sport in the interests of supposed expediency.
Please do not regard that statement as implying the organization of an Eastern conference or even a poetic "Ivy League". That sort of thing does not seem to be in the cards at the moment.
Within a year of this statement and having held month-long discussions about the proposal, on December 3, 1936, the idea of "the formation of an Ivy League" gained enough traction among the undergraduate bodies of the universities that the Columbia Daily Spectator, The Cornell Daily Sun, The Dartmouth, The Harvard Crimson, The Daily Pennsylvanian, The Daily Princetonian and the Yale Daily News would simultaneously run an editorial entitled "Now Is the Time", encouraging the seven universities to form the league in an effort to preserve the ideals of athletics. Part of the editorial read as follows:

The Ivy League exists already in the minds of a good many of those connected with football, and we fail to see why the seven schools concerned should be satisfied to let it exist as a purely nebulous entity where there are so many practical benefits which would be possible under definite organized association. The seven colleges involved fall naturally together by reason of their common interests and similar general standards and by dint of their established national reputation they are in a particularly advantageous position to assume leadership for the preservation of the ideals of intercollegiate athletics.
The Ivies have been competing in sports as long as intercollegiate sports have existed in the United States. Rowing teams from Harvard and Yale met in the first sporting event held between students of two U.S. colleges on Lake Winnipesaukee, New Hampshire, on August 3, 1852. Harvard's team, "The Oneida", won the race and was presented with trophy black walnut oars from then-presidential nominee General Franklin Pierce. The proposal to create an athletic league did not succeed. On January 11, 1937, the athletic authorities at the schools rejected the "possibility of a heptagonal league in football such as these institutions maintain in basketball, baseball and track." However, they noted that the league "has such promising possibilities that it may not be dismissed and must be the subject of further consideration."

Integration of athletic competition in the Ivy League
The integration of athletics followed a similar pattern to the overall integration of the Ivy League's in the 19th and early 20th century. There was no active policy that would discriminate against incorporating Black student athletes into the athletic coalition. Harvard has the earliest record of breaking the color barrier in athletics after recruiting William Henry Lewis to their football team in 1892. Dartmouth followed suit, with Black athletes integrating onto their football teams in 1904. Brown integrated their football team shortly after, in 1916. Cornell would follow suit in 1937.

Penn had black students on their track and field team as early as 1903 (John Baxter Taylor, Jr., the first black athlete in the U.S. to win a gold medal in the Olympics) and a black student was named captain of the track team in 1918. Columbia's track and field team would be integrated in 1934. Basketball would become integrated at Yale in 1926, at Princeton in 1947.

Post-World War II
In 1945 the presidents of the eight schools signed the first Ivy Group Agreement, which set academic, financial, and athletic standards for the football teams. The principles established reiterated those put forward in the Harvard-Yale-Princeton presidents' Agreement of 1916. The Ivy Group Agreement established the core tenet that an applicant's ability to play on a team would not influence admissions decisions:

The members of the Group reaffirm their prohibition of athletic scholarships. Athletes shall be admitted as students and awarded financial aid only on the basis of the same academic standards and economic need as are applied to all other students.
In 1954, the presidents extended the Ivy Group Agreement to all intercollegiate sports, effective with the 1955–56 basketball season. This is generally reckoned as the formal formation of the Ivy League. As part of the transition, Brown, the only Ivy that had not joined the EIBL, did so for the 1954–55 season. A year later, the Ivy League absorbed the EIBL. The Ivy League claims the EIBL's history as its own. Through the EIBL, it is the oldest basketball conference in Division I.

As late as the 1960s many of the Ivy League universities' undergraduate programs remained open only to men, with Cornell the only one to have been coeducational from its founding (1865) and Columbia being the last (1983) to become coeducational. Before they became coeducational, many of the Ivy schools maintained extensive social ties with nearby Seven Sisters women's colleges, including weekend visits, dances and parties inviting Ivy and Seven Sisters students to mingle. This was the case not only at Barnard College and Radcliffe College, which are adjacent to Columbia and Harvard, but at more distant institutions as well. The movie Animal House includes a satiric version of the formerly common visits by Dartmouth men to Massachusetts to meet Smith and Mount Holyoke women, a drive of more than two hours. As noted by Irene Harwarth, Mindi Maline, and Elizabeth DeBra, "The 'Seven Sisters' was the name given to Barnard, Smith, Mount Holyoke, Vassar, Bryn Mawr, Wellesley, and Radcliffe, because of their parallel to the Ivy League men's colleges."

In 1982 the Ivy League considered adding two members, with Army, Navy, and Northwestern as the most likely candidates; if it had done so, the league could probably have avoided being moved into the recently created Division I-AA (now Division I FCS) for football. In 1983, following the admission of women to Columbia College, Columbia University and Barnard College entered into an athletic consortium agreement by which students from both schools compete together on Columbia University women's athletic teams, which replaced the women's teams previously sponsored by Barnard.When Army and Navy departed the Eastern Intercollegiate Baseball League in 1992, nearly all intercollegiate competition involving the eight schools became united under the Ivy League banner. The major exception is hockey, with the Ivies that sponsor hockey—all except Penn and Columbia—members of ECAC Hockey. Wrestling was a second exception through the 2023-24 academic calendar; up until that point the Ivies that sponsor wrestling—all except Dartmouth and Yale— were members of the Eastern Intercollegiate Wrestling Association.
The Ivy League was the first athletic conference to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic by shutting down all athletic competition in March 2020, leaving many Spring schedules unfinished. The Fall 2020 schedule was canceled in July, and winter sports were canceled before Thanksgiving. Of the 357 men's basketball teams in Division I, only ten did not play; the Ivy League made up eight of those ten. By giving up its automatic qualifying bid to March Madness, the Ivy League forfeited at least $280,000 in NCAA basketball funds. As a consequence of the pandemic, an unprecedented number of student athletes in the Ivy League either transferred to other schools, or temporarily unenrolled in hopes of maintaining their eligibility to play post-pandemic. Some Ivy alumni expressed displeasure with the League's position. In February 2021 it was reported that Yale declined a multi-million dollar offer from alum Joseph Tsai to create a sequestered "bubble" for the lacrosse team. The league announced in a May 2021 joint statement that "regular athletic competition" would resume "across all sports" in fall 2021.
Following the Black Lives Matter protests in 2020, the Ivy League Conference committed itself to uphold "diversity, equity, and inclusion," to combat racism and homophobia. At Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Harvard, and Princeton there are Black Student Athlete groups and other affinity groups that are dedicated to ensuring their organizations are committed to anti-racism and anti-homophobia. In 2023, two former Brown University basketball players sued the Ivy League alleging that by denying athletic scholarships, the 1954 "Ivy League Agreement" is anticompetititive and violates antitrust laws. The lawsuit claims that the agreement constitutes price-fixing in violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890, and in effect raises the cost of Ivy League education for student athletes.

Academics
Undergraduate admissions
The Ivy League schools are highly selective, with seven out of the eight universities reporting undergraduate acceptance rates below 6%. Admitted students come from around the world, although those from the Northeastern United States make up a significant proportion of students.
In 2021, all eight Ivy League schools recorded record high numbers of applications and record low acceptance rates. Year-over-year increases in the number of applicants ranged from 14.5% at Princeton to 51% at Columbia.
There have been arguments that Ivy League schools discriminate against Asian-American candidates. For example, in August 2020, the U.S. Justice Department argued that Yale University discriminated against Asian-American candidates on the basis of their race, a charge the university denied. Harvard faced a similar challenge from Students for Fair Admissions, which ultimately won its case in the U.S. Supreme Court in 2023, leading to the end of affirmative action in college admissions.

Prestige
Members of the League have been highly ranked by various university rankings. All of the Ivy League schools are consistently ranked within the top 20 national universities by the U.S. News & World Report Best Colleges Ranking.

Collaboration
Collaboration between the member schools is illustrated by the student-led Ivy Council that meets in the fall and spring of each year, with representatives from every Ivy League school. The governing body of the Ivy League is the Council of Ivy Group presidents, composed of each university president. During meetings, the presidents discuss common procedures and initiatives for their universities.
The universities collaborate academically through the IvyPlus Exchange Scholar Program, which allows students to cross-register at one of the Ivies or another eligible school such as Berkeley, Chicago, MIT, and Stanford.

History of diversity
Racial segregation and integration
Ivy League institutions have a complex history of racial segregation, and, eventually, integration. All of the universities in the Ivy League besides Cornell University were chartered during the American era of slavery. In 2003, Brown University was the first of the Ivies to take accountability for their historic ties to slavery and the transatlantic slave trade. Following Brown, other Ivy League universities formed committees to examine their ties to slavery, and found various institutional relationships to slavery. Yale University, for example, used profits from slave traders and owners to fund its first scholarships, libraries, and faculty positions. To date, some of Yale's residential colleges are named after slave traders and supporters. The investigations at Harvard, Princeton, Columbia, and the University of Pennsylvania all found that, in the century following their charters, enslaved Black people lived on campus to care for students, professors, or the universities' presidents. Notably, Princeton's first nine presidents were slave owners, and in 1766, a slave auction reportedly took place on Princeton's campus.
A small number of Black people did attend Ivy League institutions as students during their early years. These early students, however, were not always granted degrees. For example, some Black students were recorded studying privately with the Princeton University president as early as 1774, but no Black students received Princeton degrees until the middle of the twentieth century. Jonathan and Philip Gayienquitioga, two brothers of the Mohawk People, were the first people of color to enroll at Penn in 1755 after being recruited by Benjamin Franklin to attend the Academy of Philadelphia (then part of Penn). But there is no evidence that either earned a degree as the first Native American to graduate Penn did not occur until 1847 when Robert Daniel Ross, a member of the Cherokee Nation, graduated with a degree from Penn's medical school.

19th and early 20th centuries
In 1900, W. E. B. Du Bois oversaw and edited The College-bred Negro. a study on Black integration in colleges and universities that found a combined total of 52 Black students had graduated from Ivy League schools in their collective histories. Since no official policies prohibited schools in the Ivy League from admitting students of color each university in the League had different policies regarding the admission of Black students. Dartmouth's first Black student graduated in 1828, while Princeton would only admit their first Black student under the V-12 Navy College Training Program in the 1940s.
Early Black student admits to Ivy League universities were controversial and often faced backlash. Dartmouth initially denied its first Black graduate, Edward Mitchell, supposedly to avoid "offend[ing] students". Dartmouth students protested this decision, leading to Mitchell's admission in 1824. Richard Henry Green was awarded an MD degree by Dartmouth College in 1864.
Harvard admitted its first Black student, Beverly Garnett Williams, in 1847. News of his admission incited protests by Harvard students and faculty. Williams died before the academic year began, however, and never matriculated. Richard Theodore Greener was the first African American to receive a Harvard degree in 1870. Between 1890 and 1940, an average of three Black men enrolled at Harvard per year. In 1923, Harvard's Board of Overseers overruled University President Abbot Lawrence's ban on Black students living in dorms, announcing that all freshmen would be permitted to live in dorms regardless of race, but upheld that “men of the white and colored races shall not be compelled to live and eat together." Brown seems to have refused admission to Black students outright prior to the Civil War. Abolitionist Elizabeth Buffum Chase wrote in her book Anti Slavery Reminiscences about "a lad of rare excellence and attainments [who] was refused an examination for admission by the authorities of Brown University on account of the color of his skin." Inman Page was the first Black student to graduate from Brown in 1877, and was class speaker.
William Adger, James Brister, and Nathan Francis Mossell were the first Black students enrolled at Penn in 1879. Brister graduated from the School of Dental Medicine (Penn Dental) in 1881 as the first African American to earn a degree from Penn, while Adger was the first African American to graduate from the college in 1883.
Columbia University has claimed that four Black students earned University degrees between 1875 and 1900, though their names are apparently unknown.
Yale's Edward Bouchet, was the first Black person (a) elected to Phi Beta Kappa in the US in 1874 and (b) to earn a Ph.D. from any American university, completing his dissertation in physics in 1876. Bouchet was thought to have been the first African-American graduate of Yale, but research publicized in 2014 reported that Yale awarded a Black man, Richard Henry Green, a bachelor of arts degree in 1857.
Cornell seemed the most inclusive of the Ivy Leagues at its inception, with admission open to any race and gender. University co-founder Andrew Dickson White wrote in 1874 that the school had "no colored students...at present but shall be very glad to receive any who are prepared to enter...if even one offered himself and passed the examinations, we should receive him even if all our five hundred white students were to ask for dismissal on that account." In 1890, Charles Chauveau Cook and Jane Eleanor Datcher were the first Black students awarded four-year undergraduate Cornell degrees. Despite this, Black students faced legal and social segregation in the town of Ithaca, New York. In 1905, Black students reported being denied housing while attending Cornell.

Princeton University, sometimes referred to as the "Southern-most Ivy", was the last to integrate. In Du Bois' The College-bred Negro (1900), a Princeton representative is quoted: "We have never had any colored students here, though there is nothing in the University statutes to prevent their admission. It is possible, however, in view of our proximity to the South and the large number of southern students here, that Negro students would find Princeton less comfortable than some other institutions." Notably, in 1939, Princeton revoked admittance to Black student Bruce Wright upon his arrival on campus, when Director of Admission Radcliffe Heermance noticed Wright's race. When a disappointed Wright wrote Heermance requesting an explanation, Heermance responded:"I cannot conscientiously advise a colored student to apply for admission to Princeton simply because I do not think that he would be happy in this environment. There are no colored students in the University and a member of your race might feel very much alone...My personal experience would enforce my advice to any colored student that he would be happier in an environment of others of his race, and that he would adjust himself far more easily to the life of a New England college or university, or one of the large state universities than he would to a residential college of this particular type."The few early Black students admitted to Ivy League universities were often from wealthy Caribbean families. Barriers preventing African American students from attending Ivy League universities included the universities' policies, poor recruitment, tuition costs, and the lack of secondary education opportunities in a racially segregated country. More Black students attended Ivy League graduate and professional schools than their undergraduate programs. By the middle of the 20th century, only 54 Black men and women had graduated with a Bachelor degree from Ivy League universities.

Late 20th century
By the middle of the 20th century, some Ivy League students and alumni were advocating for increased racial integration efforts. These efforts were met with mixed reactions from the schools themselves. Without a goal for integration shared by the institutions as a collective, each school increased racial diversity at different rates, with Dartmouth having 120 Black undergraduates in the class of 1945 and Princeton having a cumulative total of fewer than 100 Black undergraduates by 1967.
The V-12 Navy College Training Program in 1942 effectively forced all eight Ivy institutions to increase Black student enrollment. At Princeton University, the Black students in this program were the first ever granted bachelor's degrees by the University.
The 1954 Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education did not require private universities like those in the Ivy League to abide by the ruling. It wasn't until the Court's 1976 decision in Runyon v. McCrary that private institutions became legally prohibited from discriminating on the basis of race. By the early 1960s, however, some admissions offices in the Ivy League began to make concerted efforts to increase their number of Black applicants, rolling out initiatives that actively sought Black talent from high schools. Efforts for racial integration at Ivy League institutions relied on the support of student organizations, faculty-led initiatives, and third-party organizations like the National Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro Students to seek prospective Black applicants. These efforts also prompted internal University action, such as the creation of Cornell's Committee on Special Educational Projects (COSEP), an organization aimed to recruit and support Black students. By 1965, however, Black students still were only 2% of admitted students across all the Ivies.
Prior to the 1960s, the majority of Ivy League universities explicitly prohibited the admission of women, instead forming partnerships with nearby women's colleges. As such, Black women were not able to attend Ivy League universities until they changed their policies. Lillian Lincoln Lambert was the first Black woman to receive a degree from Harvard University after graduating with a master's degree from Harvard Business School in 1969. Lincoln Lambert was also a founding member of Harvard's African American Student Union, which according to her, actively recruited Black students and created "a space where Black students could find not only support but resources for everything from barber shops that cut Black hair to churches."
As Black student populations grew at Ivy League schools, on-campus activism saw an increase during the civil rights movement. In 1969, students in Cornell's Afro-American Society led an armed occupation of Willard Straight Hall to protest the university's racist policies and “its slow progress in establishing a Black studies program.” In the same year, students associated with Yale's New Left organization, Students for a Democratic Society, worked closely with the New Haven Black Panthers to lead sit-ins and protests that advocated for the admission of more students of color and the establishment of an African American studies department. At Brown University, identity-based student organizations such as the United African People and the African American Society called for an increase to the number of Black faculty and increased attention to the needs of Black students. Demonstrations at Harvard and Columbia took the form of occupations and non-violent sit-ins that were often subject to forceful removal by local police called by University administrators. Activism at Dartmouth took a different shape during this time period, as students would use demonstrations that were happening at other Ivies and colleges around the country, to effectively position their demands for progress within the prospect of taking actions similar to those happening elsewhere.

21st century
Continuing the trajectory of the late 20th century, the number of Black students on Ivy League campuses has continued to increase in the 21st century. From 2006 to 2018, there was an approximated 50% increase in the admission of Black students into entering classes, growing from 1,110 to 1,663. As of 2018, the Ivy League universities unanimously supported Harvard University's “race-conscious admissions” model. Harvard University representatives credited this form of affirmative action as one of the factors increasing campus diversity.
In 2014 case Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action, 572 U.S. 291 (2014) — the Supreme Court upheld Michigan's ban on affirmative action for public institutions and in 2016 inFisher v. University of Texas II, No. 14-981, 579 U.S. ___ (2016) the court upheld the university's limited use of race in admissions decisions because the university showed it had a clear goal of limited scope without other workable race-neutral means to achieve it.
However, in 2023 — Students for Fair Admissions v. President and Fellows of Harvard College, No. 20-1199, 600 U.S. ___ (2023) the United States Supreme Court overruled the decades old decisionsRegents of University of California v. Bakke and Grutter v. Bollinger and other cases mentioned above in this paragraph but disallowing non-individualized racial preferences in admissions for civilian universities. 
In essence, the court interpreted the Fourteenth Amendment as not permitting Harvard's “race-conscious admissions” as the court decision now forbids the consideration of race in higher education admissions.
Institutions in favor of Harvard's model argue that in addition to academic excellence they also aim to form a diverse student body, while individuals that argue against the model state that it is discriminatory against certain applicants.
The growing Black student population in Ivy League universities in the early 2000s was accompanied by an increase in the number of Black faculty at these institutions, though rates of change among faculty have been slower and inconsistent. In 2005, 588– or about 3.9%– of the Ivies' 14,831 full-time faculty members were Black. This proportion decreased to 3.4% in 2015. Notably, in 2001, Ruth J. Simmons became the president of Brown University, making her the first and only Black president of an Ivy League institution.
The 21st century saw the continuation of demonstrations by Ivy League students revolving around race. Many of these demonstrations have sought to continue the work of their 20th century predecessors by advocating for increased admission and support of Black students. In light of the Students for Fair Admissions v. President and Fellows of Harvard College Supreme Court case, students from Yale and Harvard joined other universities in protesting in defense of race-conscious admissions policies.
Likewise, Black students from Ivy League institutions continue to protest for the betterment of Black students' lives on campus and beyond. Following Michael Brown's death in 2014, students across the Ivies formed the Black Ivy Coalition, which included members from all eight institutions and aimed to combat anti-Black racism. Individual Ivy League universities also formed their own advocacy organizations and movements as a direct response to instances of anti-Black violence. After the murder of Michael Brown, Princeton University students formed the Black Justice League, which in 2015, occupied Nassau Hall and presented a list of demands to university administrators. Similarly, in 2017, Cornell students made demands to their administration protesting the assault of a Black student. Led by Black Students United, the demands included banning the Psi Upsilon fraternity for hate crimes, implementing implicit bias training, and introducing policies to increase the number of Black students at the university.
Student demonstrations have also focused on sparking change beyond Ivy League campuses. Following the Black Lives Matter protests in 2020, Harvard's Black Law Students Association, beyond calling for more Black faculty, critical race theory curriculum, and protection for student protestors, also called on the university to divest from prisons and denounce state-sanctioned violence.
In response to racially charged incidents across the country and prompting from student activists, Ivy League universities have removed and renamed campus landmarks. In response to the 2016 Black Lives Matter protests, Cornell renamed their botanical gardens, previously called the "Cornell Plantations," to the "Cornell Botanical Gardens." In 2018, Brown renamed one of its largest academic and administrative buildings after its first black graduates, Inman E. Page and Ethel Tremaine Robinson. In response to the murder of George Floyd in 2020, Princeton University removed Woodrow Wilson's name from a residential college and the School of Public and International Affairs because of his “racist thinking and policies.”

Fashion and lifestyle
Different fashion trends and styles have emerged from Ivy League campuses over time, and fashion trends such as Ivy League and preppy are styles often associated with the Ivy League and its culture.
Ivy League style is a style of men's dress, popular during the late 1950s, believed to have originated on Ivy League campuses. The clothing stores J. Press and Brooks Brothers represent perhaps the quintessential Ivy League dress manner. The Ivy League style is said to be the predecessor to the preppy style of dress.
Preppy fashion started around 1912 to the late 1940s and 1950s as the Ivy League style of dress. J. Press represents the quintessential preppy clothing brand, stemming from the collegiate traditions that shaped the preppy subculture. In the mid-twentieth century J. Press and Brooks Brothers, both being pioneers in preppy fashion, had stores on Ivy League school campuses, including Harvard, Yale, and Princeton.
Some typical preppy styles also reflect traditional upper class New England leisure activities, such as equestrian, sailing or yachting, hunting, fencing, rowing, lacrosse, tennis, golf, and rugby. Longtime New England outdoor outfitters, such as L.L. Bean, became part of conventional preppy style. This can be seen in sport stripes and colors, equestrian clothing, plaid shirts, field jackets and nautical-themed accessories. Vacationing in Palm Beach, Florida, long popular with the East Coast upper class, led to the emergence of bright colors combinations in leisure wear seen in some brands such as Lilly Pulitzer. By the 1980s, other brands such as Lacoste, Izod and Dooney & Bourke became associated with preppy style.
Though the Ivy League style is most commonly associated with the white, male elites that historically made up Ivy League campuses, the style was quickly popularized among Black communities during the civil rights era. Reinterpretations of this style by African-American men in the 1950s and 1960s combined the preppy Ivy League style with other popular Black styles of dress. This led to the emergence of a new style of dress, the Black Ivy style.
Today, Ivy League styles continue to be popular on Ivy League campuses, throughout the U.S., and abroad, and are oftentimes labeled as "Classic American style" or "Traditional American style".

Social elitism
The Ivy League is often associated with the upper class White Anglo-Saxon Protestant community of the Northeast, Old money, or more generally, the American upper middle and upper classes. Although most Ivy League students come from upper-middle and upper-class families, the student body has become increasingly more economically and ethnically diverse. The universities provide significant financial aid to help increase the enrollment of lower income and middle class students. Several reports suggest, however, that the proportion of students from less-affluent families remains low.
Phrases such as "Ivy League snobbery" are ubiquitous in nonfiction and fiction writing of the early and mid-twentieth century. A Louis Auchincloss character dreads "the aridity of snobbery which he knew infected the Ivy League colleges". A business writer, warning in 2001 against discriminatory hiring, presented a cautionary example of an attitude to avoid (the bracketed phrase is his):

We Ivy Leaguers [read: mostly white and Anglo] know that an Ivy League degree is a mark of the kind of person who is likely to succeed in this organization.
The phrase Ivy League historically has been perceived as connected not only with academic excellence but also with social elitism. In 1936, sportswriter John Kieran noted that student editors at Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Princeton, Cornell, Dartmouth, and Penn were advocating the formation of an athletic association. In urging them to consider "Army and Navy and Georgetown and Fordham and Syracuse and Brown and Pitt" as candidates for membership, he exhorted:

It would be well for the proponents of the Ivy League to make it clear (to themselves especially) that the proposed group would be inclusive but not "exclusive" as this term is used with a slight up-tilting of the tip of the nose.
Aspects of Ivy stereotyping were illustrated during the 1988 presidential election, when George H. W. Bush (Yale '48) derided Michael Dukakis (graduate of Harvard Law School) for having "foreign-policy views born in Harvard Yard's boutique." New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd asked "Wasn't this a case of the pot calling the kettle elite?" Bush explained, however, that, unlike Harvard, Yale's reputation was "so diffuse, there isn't a symbol, I don't think, in the Yale situation, any symbolism in it. ... Harvard boutique to me has the connotation of liberalism and elitism" and said Harvard in his remark was intended to represent "a philosophical enclave" and not a statement about class. Columnist Russell Baker opined that "Voters inclined to loathe and fear elite Ivy League schools rarely make fine distinctions between Yale and Harvard. All they know is that both are full of rich, fancy, stuck-up and possibly dangerous intellectuals who never sit down to supper in their undershirt no matter how hot the weather gets." Still, the next five consecutive presidents all attended Ivy League schools for at least part of their education—George H. W. Bush (Yale undergrad), Bill Clinton (Yale Law School), George W. Bush (Yale undergrad, Harvard Business School), Barack Obama (Columbia undergrad, Harvard Law School), and Donald Trump (Penn undergrad).  Indeed, since 1989, Joe Biden has been the only president to not be Ivy League-educated.

U.S. presidents in the Ivy League
Of the 45 persons who have served as President of the United States, 16 have graduated from an Ivy League university with either a Bachelor's or advanced degree. Of them, eight have degrees from Harvard, five from Yale, three from Columbia, two from Princeton and one from Penn. Twelve presidents have earned Ivy undergraduate degrees. Four of these were transfer students: Woodrow Wilson transferred from Davidson College, Barack Obama transferred from Occidental College, Donald Trump transferred from Fordham University, and John F. Kennedy transferred from Princeton to Harvard. John Adams was the first president to graduate from college, graduating from Harvard in 1755.

Student demographics
Race and ethnicity
Geographic distribution
Students of the Ivy League largely hail from the Northeast, largely from the New York City, Boston, and Philadelphia areas. As all eight Ivy League universities are within the Northeast, most graduates end up working and residing in the Northeast after graduation. An unscientific survey of Harvard seniors from the Class of 2013 found that 42% hailed from the Northeast and 55% overall were planning on working and residing in the Northeast. Boston and New York City are traditionally where many Ivy League graduates end up living.

Socioeconomics and social class
Students of the Ivy League, both graduate and undergraduate, come primarily from upper middle and upper class families. In recent years, however, the universities have looked towards increasing socioeconomic and class diversity, by providing greater financial aid packages to applicants from lower, working, and lower middle class American families.
In 2013, a Harvard Crimson writer estimated that 46% of Harvard undergraduate students came from families in the top 3.8% of all American households (i.e., over $200,000 annual income). In 2012, the bottom 25% of the American income distribution accounted for only 3–4% of students at Brown, a figure that had remained unchanged since 1992. In 2014, 69% of incoming freshmen students at Yale College came from families with annual incomes of over $120,000, putting most Yale College students in the upper-middle and upper classes. (The median household income in the U.S. in 2013 was $52,700.)
In the 2011–2012 academic year, students qualifying for Pell Grants (federally funded scholarships on the basis of need) constituted 20% at Harvard, 18% at Cornell, 17% at Penn, 16% at Columbia, 15% at Dartmouth and Brown, 14% at Yale, and 12% at Princeton. Nationally, 35% of American university students qualify for a Pell Grant.

Graduation rates
Faculty demographics
Race and ethnicity
Competition and athletics
Ivy champions are recognized in sixteen men's and sixteen women's sports. In some sports, Ivy teams actually compete as members of another league, the Ivy championship being decided by isolating the members' records in play against each other; for example, the six league members who participate in ice hockey do so as members of ECAC Hockey, but an Ivy champion is extrapolated each year. In one sport, rowing, the Ivies recognize team champions for each sex in both heavyweight and lightweight divisions. While the Intercollegiate Rowing Association governs all four sex- and bodyweight-based divisions of rowing, the only one that is sanctioned by the NCAA is women's heavyweight. The Ivy League was the last Division I basketball conference to institute a conference postseason tournament; the first tournaments for men and women were held at the end of the 2016–17 season. The tournaments only award the Ivy League automatic bids for the NCAA Division I Men's and Women's Basketball Tournaments; the official conference championships continue to be awarded based solely on regular-season results. Before the 2016–17 season, the automatic bids were based solely on regular-season record, with a one-game playoff (or series of one-game playoffs if more than two teams were tied) held to determine the automatic bid. The Ivy League is one of only two Division I conferences which award their official basketball championships solely on regular-season results; the other is the Southeastern Conference. Since its inception, an Ivy League school has yet to win either the men's or women's Division I NCAA basketball tournament.

On average, each Ivy school has more than 35 varsity teams. All eight are in the top 20 for number of sports offered for both men and women among Division I schools. Unlike most Division I athletic conferences, the Ivy League prohibits the granting of athletic scholarships; all scholarships awarded are need-based (financial aid). In addition, the Ivies have a rigid policy against redshirting, even for medical reasons; an athlete loses a year of eligibility for every year enrolled at an Ivy institution. Additionally, the Ivies prohibit graduate students from participating in intercollegiate athletics, even if they have remaining athletic eligibility. The only exception to the ban on graduate students was that seniors graduating in 2021 were allowed to play at their current institutions as graduate students in 2021–22. This was a one-time-only response to the Ivies shutting down most intercollegiate athletics in 2020–21 due to COVID-19. Ivy League teams' non-league games are often against the members of the Patriot League, which have similar academic standards and athletic scholarship policies (although unlike the Ivies, the Patriot League allows both redshirting and play by eligible graduate students). To promote diversity and inclusion, student-athletes are required to have their gender pronouns listed on their roster pages on the athletic websites for most Ivy League schools.
In the time before recruiting for college sports became dominated by those offering athletic scholarships and lowered academic standards for athletes, the Ivy League was successful in many sports relative to other universities in the country. In particular, Princeton won 26 recognized national championships in college football (last in 1935), and Yale won 18 (last in 1927). Both of these totals are considerably higher than those of other historically strong programs such as Alabama, which has won 15, Notre Dame, which claims 11 but is credited by many sources with 13, and USC, which has won 11. Yale, whose coach Walter Camp was the "Father of American Football," held on to its place as the all-time wins leader in college football throughout the entire 20th century, but was finally passed by Michigan on November 10, 2001. Harvard, Yale, Princeton and Penn each have over a dozen former scholar-athletes enshrined in the College Football Hall of Fame. Currently Dartmouth holds the record for most Ivy League football titles, with 18, followed closely by Harvard and Penn, each with 17 titles. In addition, the Ivy League has produced Super Bowl winners Kevin Boothe (Cornell), two-time Pro Bowler Zak DeOssie (Brown), Sean Morey (Brown), All-Pro selection Matt Birk (Harvard), Calvin Hill (Yale), Derrick Harmon (Cornell) and Justin Watson (wide receiver), (three-time Super Bowl champion, winning Super Bowl LV with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Super Bowl LVII and LVIII with the Kansas City Chiefs), (Penn).

Beginning with the 1982 football season, the Ivy League has competed in Division I-AA (renamed FCS in 2006). The Ivy League teams are eligible for the FCS tournament held to determine the national champion, and the league champion is eligible for an automatic bid (and any other team may qualify for an at-large selection) from the NCAA. However, from its inception in 1956 until 2024, the Ivy League had not played any postseason games due to concerns about the extended December schedule's effects on academics. (The last postseason game for a member was 91 years ago, the 1934 Rose Bowl, won by Columbia.) For this reason, any Ivy League team invited to the FCS playoffs turned down the bid. The Ivy League plays a strict 10-game schedule, compared to other FCS members' schedules of 11 (or, in some seasons, 12) regular season games, plus post-season, which expanded in 2013 to five rounds with 24 teams, with a bye week for the top eight teams. Football had been the only sport in which the Ivy League declined to compete for a national title.  However, beginning in 2025, the Ivy League will participate in the FCS playoffs, with its conference champion automatically qualifying for the tournament.
In addition to varsity football, Penn and Cornell also field teams in the 9-team Collegiate Sprint Football League, in which all players must weigh 178 pounds or less. With Princeton canceling its program in 2016, Penn is the last remaining founding members of the league from its 1934 debut, and Cornell is the next-oldest, joining in 1937. Yale and Columbia previously fielded teams in the league but no longer do so.

Teams
Men's sponsored sports by school
Men's varsity sports not sponsored by the Ivy League
Notes:
1: Though the Ivy League lists ice hockey as a sponsored sport, all six ice hockey playing Ivy League schools participate as members of ECAC Hockey.

Women's sponsored sports by school
Women's varsity sports not sponsored by the Ivy League
Notes:
1: Though the Ivy League lists ice hockey as a sponsored sport, all six ice hockey playing Ivy League schools participate as members of ECAC Hockey.
2. The Ivy League is home to some of the oldest college rugby teams in the United States. Although none of the men's teams and half of the women's teams are not "varsity" sports, they all compete against each other as part of the Ivy Rugby Conference in addition to their own local conferences. Four of the women's teams (Brown, Dartmouth, Harvard, and Princeton) play as part of the NCAA emerging sport category.

Historical results
The table above includes the number of team championships won from the beginning of official Ivy League competition (1956–57 academic year) through 2016–17. Princeton and Harvard have on occasion won ten or more Ivy League titles in a year, an achievement accomplished 10 times by Harvard and 24 times by Princeton, including a conference-record 15 championships in 2010–11. Only once has one of the other six schools earned more than eight titles in a single academic year (Cornell with nine in 2005–06). In the 38 academic years beginning 1979–80, Princeton has averaged 10 championships per year, one-third of the conference total of 33 sponsored sports.
In the 12 academic years beginning 2005–06 Princeton has won championships in 31 different sports, all except wrestling and men's tennis.

Rivalries
Rivalries run deep in the Ivy League. For instance, Princeton and Penn are longstanding men's basketball rivals; "Puck Frinceton" T-shirts are worn by Quaker fans at games. In only 11 instances in the history of Ivy League basketball, and in only seven seasons since Yale's 1962 title, has neither Penn nor Princeton won at least a share of the Ivy League title in basketball, with Princeton champion or co-champion 26 times and Penn 25 times. Penn has won 21 outright, Princeton 19 outright. Princeton has been a co-champion 7 times, sharing 4 of those titles with Penn (these 4 seasons represent the only times Penn has been co-champion).
Harvard won its first title of either variety in 2011, losing a dramatic play-off game to Princeton for the NCAA tournament bid, then rebounded to win outright championships in 2012, 2013, and 2014. Harvard also won the 2013 Great Alaska Shootout, defeating TCU to become the only Ivy League school to win the now-defunct tournament.
Rivalries exist between other Ivy league teams in other sports, including Cornell and Harvard in hockey, Harvard and Princeton in swimming, and Harvard and Penn in football (Penn and Harvard have won 28 Ivy League Football Championships since 1982, Penn-16; Harvard-12). During that time Penn has had 8 undefeated Ivy League Football Championships and Harvard has had 6 undefeated Ivy League Football Championships. In men's lacrosse, Cornell and Princeton are perennial rivals, and they are two of three Ivy League teams to have won the NCAA tournament. In 2009, the Big Red and Tigers met for their 70th game in the NCAA tournament. No team other than Harvard or Princeton has won the men's swimming conference title outright since 1972, although Yale, Columbia, and Cornell have shared the title with Harvard and Princeton during this time. Similarly, no program other than Princeton and Harvard has won the women's swimming championship since Brown's 1999 title. Princeton or Cornell has won every indoor and outdoor track and field championship, both men's and women's, every year since 2002–03, with one exception (Columbia women won the indoor championship in 2012). Harvard and Yale are football and crew rivals although the competition has become unbalanced; Harvard has won all but one of the last 15 football games and all but one of the last 13 crew races.

Intra-conference football rivalries
The Yale–Princeton series is the nation's second-longest by games played, surpassed only by "The Rivalry" between Lehigh and Lafayette, which began later in 1884 but included two or three games in each of 17 early seasons. For the first three decades of the Yale-Princeton rivalry, the two played their season-ending game at a neutral site, usually New York City, and with one exception (1890: Harvard), the winner of the game also won at least a share of the national championship that year, covering the period 1869 through 1903. This phenomenon of a finale contest at a neutral site for the national title created a social occasion for the society elite of the metropolitan area akin to a Super Bowl in the era prior to the establishment of the NFL in 1920. These football games were also financially profitable for the two universities, so much that they began to play baseball games in New York City as well, drawing record crowds for that sport also, largely from the same social demographic. In a period when the only professional team sports were fledgling baseball leagues, these high-profile early contests between Princeton and Yale played a role in popularizing spectator sports, demonstrating their financial potential and raising public awareness of Ivy universities at a time when few people attended college.

Extra-conference football rivalries
Championships
NCAA team championships
This list, which is current through January 8, 2018, includes NCAA championships and women's AIAW championships (one each for Yale and Dartmouth and five for Cornell). Excluded from this list are all other national championships earned outside the scope of NCAA competition, including football titles and retroactive Helms Foundation titles.

Athletic facilities
Other Ivies
The term Ivy is sometimes used to connote a positive comparison to or an association with the Ivy League, often along academic lines. The term has been used to describe the Little Ivies, a grouping of small liberal arts colleges in the Northeastern United States. Other common uses include the Public Ivies, the Hidden Ivies, the Southern Ivies, and the Black Ivies.

Ivy Plus
The term Ivy Plus refers to the original eight Ivy league institutions along with four other institutions consisting of Duke University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Stanford University, and the University of Chicago. Beyond rankings and prestige, the four schools are included in the grouping given their formal participation in academic exchange programs, university consortia, shared academic resources, collaborative alumni associations, or endowment comparisons.

See also
Big Three—an athletic rivalry between Harvard, Yale, and Princeton.
List of Ivy League medical schools—schools of the Ivy League universities that offer medical education.
List of Ivy League law schools—schools of the Ivy League universities that offer various law degrees.
List of Ivy League business schools—schools of the Ivy League universities that offer various business degrees, especially the MBA.
List of Ivy League public policy schools—schools of the Ivy League universities that offer public policy or public administration degrees.
Black Ivy League—informal list of private historically black colleges and universities that have historically been seen as the African American equivalent to the Ivy League
Little Ivies—private liberal arts colleges that historically have had the same social prestige and similar large financial endowments as the Ivy league.
Public Ivy—public colleges & universities that are perceived to provide an education equal to the Ivy League.
Seven Sisters—seven liberal arts colleges previously open to only women with historical affiliations to the Ivy League.

Notes
References
External links

Official website
Ivy League schools are some of the most prestigious universities in the world. All eight universities place in the top 18 of the 2024 U.S. News & World Report National Universities ranking. U.S. News has named a member of the Ivy League as the best national university every year since 2001: as of 2020, Princeton eleven times, Harvard twice, and the two schools tied for first five times. In the 2024–2025 U.S. News & World Report Best Global University Ranking, six Ivies rank in the top 20: Harvard (#1), Columbia (#9), Yale (#10), Penn (#14), Princeton (#18), and Cornell (#19) —ranks that U.S. News says are based on "indicators that measure their academic research performance and their global and regional reputations." All eight Ivy League schools are members of the Association of American Universities, the most prestigious alliance of American research universities.
Undergraduate enrollments range from about 4,500 to about 15,000, larger than most liberal arts colleges and smaller than most state university systems. Total enrollment, which includes graduate students, ranges from approximately 6,600 at Dartmouth to over 20,000 at Columbia, Cornell, Harvard, and Penn. Ivy League financial endowments range from Brown's $6.9 billion to Harvard's $53.2 billion, the largest financial endowment of any academic institution in the world.
The Ivy League is similar to other groups of universities in other countries, such as Oxbridge in England, the C9 League in China, the Écoles Normales Supérieures in France and the Imperial Universities in Japan.
Ivy League universities have some of the largest university financial endowments in the world, allowing the universities to provide abundant resources for their academic programs, financial aid, and research endeavors. As of 2021, Harvard University had an endowment of $53.2 billion, the largest of any educational institution. Each university attracts millions of dollars in annual research funding from both the federal government and private sources.
Before the 2000s, many of the Ivy League championships for men's and women's cross country, indoor and outdoor track & field, and swimming & diving were formatted as invitationals that many schools across the eastern United States would attend. In other sports, such as fencing, wrestling, men's and women's ice hockey, and men's and women's rowing, all of the Ivy League schools were members of other single-sport conferences and the top-performing Ivy League team would be crowned the champion.
The United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy were members of the Ivy League in many sports and were crowned as Ivy League champions while competing with Ivy League teams. Both schools left the conference in the early 2000s to join with their current conference, the Patriot League, except for football, for which they are affiliate members of the American Athletic Conference.
Note: Six of the eight Ivy League universities consider their founding dates to be simply the date that they received their charters and thus became legal corporations with the authority to grant academic degrees. Harvard University uses the date that the legislature of the Massachusetts Bay Colony formally allocated funds for the creation of a college. Harvard was chartered in 1650, although classes had been conducted for approximately a decade by then. The University of Pennsylvania's founding date is discussed in the footnote above. "Religious affiliation" refers to financial sponsorship, formal association with, and promotion by, a religious denomination. All of the institutions in the Ivy League are private (Cornell includes both private and state-supported schools) and are no longer associated with any religion.
"Planting the ivy" was a customary class day ceremony at many colleges in the 1800s. In 1893, an alumnus told The Harvard Crimson, "In 1850, class day was placed upon the University Calendar...the custom of planting the ivy, while the ivy oration was delivered, arose about this time." At Penn, graduating seniors started the custom of planting ivy at a university building each spring in 1873 and that practice was formally designated as "Ivy Day" in 1874. Ivy planting ceremonies are recorded at Yale University, Simmons College, and Bryn Mawr College among other schools. Princeton's "Ivy Club" was founded in 1879.
The first usage of Ivy in reference to a group of colleges is from sportswriter Stanley Woodward (1895–1965).

A proportion of our eastern ivy colleges are meeting little fellows another Saturday before plunging into the strife and the turmoil.
The first known instance of the term Ivy League appeared in The Christian Science Monitor on February 7, 1935. Several sportswriters and other journalists used the term shortly later to refer to the older colleges, those along the northeastern seaboard of the United States, chiefly the nine institutions with origins dating from the colonial era, together with the United States Military Academy (West Point), the United States Naval Academy, and a few others. These schools were known for their long-standing traditions in intercollegiate athletics, often being the first schools to participate in such activities. At this time, however, none of these institutions made efforts to form an athletic league.
A common folk etymology attributes the name to the Roman numeral for four (IV), asserting that there was such a sports league originally with four members. The Morris Dictionary of Word and Phrase Origins helped to perpetuate this belief. The supposed "IV League" was formed over a century ago and consisted of Harvard, Yale, Princeton, and a fourth school that varies depending on who is telling the story. However, it is clear that Harvard, Princeton, Columbia, and Yale met on November 23, 1876, at the so-called Massasoit Convention to decide on uniform rules for the emerging game of American football, which rapidly spread.
Seven out of the eight Ivy League schools are Colonial Colleges: institutions of higher education founded prior to the American Revolution. Cornell, the exception to this commonality, was founded immediately after the American Civil War. These seven colleges served as the primary institutions of higher learning in British America's Northern and Middle Colonies. During the colonial era, the schools' faculties and founding boards were largely drawn from other Ivy League institutions. Also represented were British graduates from the University of Cambridge, the University of Oxford, the University of St. Andrews, and the University of Edinburgh.
The influence of these institutions on the founding of other colleges and universities is notable. This included the Southern public college movement which blossomed in the decades surrounding the turn of the 19th century when Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina and Virginia established what became the flagship universities of their respective states. In 1801, a majority of the first board of trustees for what became the University of South Carolina were Princeton alumni. They appointed Jonathan Maxcy, a Brown graduate, as the university's first president. Thomas Cooper, an Oxford alumnus and University of Pennsylvania faculty member, became the second president of the South Carolina college. The founders of the University of California came from Yale, hence Berkeley's colors are Yale Blue and California Gold. Stanford University has, since its earliest days, been nicknamed the "Cornell of the West": more than half of Stanford's initial faculty, as well as its first two presidents, had connections to Cornell as alumni or faculty.
A plurality of the Ivy League schools have identifiable Protestant roots. Harvard, Yale, and Dartmouth all held early associations with the Congregationalists. Princeton was financed by New Light Presbyterians, though originally led by a Congregationalist. Brown was founded by Baptists, though the university's charter stipulated that students should enjoy "full liberty of conscience." Columbia was founded by Anglicans, who composed 10 of the college's first 15 presidents. Penn and Cornell were officially nonsectarian, though Protestants were well represented in their respective founding. In the early nineteenth century, the specific purpose of training Calvinist ministers was handed off to theological seminaries, but a denominational tone and religious traditions including compulsory chapel often lasted well into the twentieth century.
"Ivy League" is sometimes used as a way of referring to an elite class, even though institutions such as Cornell University were among the first in the United States to reject racial and gender discrimination in their admissions policies. This dates back to at least 1935. Novels and memoirs attest this sense, as a social elite; to some degree independent of the actual schools.
In 1870, the nation's first formal athletic league was created in 1870 with the formation of the Rowing Association of American Colleges (RAAC), composed exclusively of Ivy League universities. RAAC hosted a national championship in rowing  from 1870 to 1894.
The first Harvard vs Yale rugby football contest was held in 1875, two years after the inaugural Princeton–Yale rugby football contest. Harvard athlete Nathaniel Curtis challenged Yale's captain, William Arnold to a rugby-style game.
Program for the "Foot Ball Match", Harvard v Yale, the first intercollegiate game. It is considered the first rugby game between Ivy League teams. The game was played at Hamilton Park, a venue in New Haven, Connecticut (located at the intersection of Whalley Avenue and West Park Avenue). The two teams played with 15 players (rugby) on a side instead of 11 (soccer) as Yale would have preferred.
In 1881, Penn, Harvard College, Haverford College, Princeton University (then known as College of New Jersey), and Columbia University (then known as Columbia College) formed The Intercollegiate Cricket Association, which Cornell University later joined. Penn won The Intercollegiate Cricket Association championship 23 times, including 18 solo victories and three shared with Haverford and Harvard, one shared with Haverford and Cornell, and one shared with just Haverford, during the 44 years that the Intercollegiate Cricket Association existed from 1881 through 1924.
In 1895, Cornell, Columbia, and Penn founded the Intercollegiate Rowing Association, which remains the oldest collegiate athletic organizing body in the US. To this day, the IRA Championship Regatta determines the national champion in rowing and all of the Ivies are regularly invited to compete.
A basketball league was later created in 1902, when Columbia, Cornell, Harvard, Yale, and Princeton formed the Eastern Intercollegiate Basketball League; they were later joined by Penn and Dartmouth.
In 1906, the organization that eventually became the National Collegiate Athletic Association was formed, primarily to formalize rules for the emerging sport of football. But of the 39 original member colleges in the NCAA, only two of them (Dartmouth and Penn) later became Ivies. In February 1903, intercollegiate wrestling began when Yale accepted a challenge from Columbia, published in the Yale News. The dual meet took place prior to a basketball game hosted by Columbia and resulted in a tie.
Two years later, Penn and Princeton also added wrestling teams, leading to the formation of the student-run Intercollegiate Wrestling Association, now the Eastern Intercollegiate Wrestling Association (EIWA), the first and oldest collegiate wrestling league in the US.

Though schools now in Ivy League (such as Yale and Columbia) played against each other in the 1880s, it was not until 1930 that Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Penn, Princeton and Yale formed the Eastern Intercollegiate Baseball League; they were later joined by Harvard, Brown, Army and Navy. Before the formal establishment of the Ivy League, there was an "unwritten and unspoken agreement among certain Eastern colleges on athletic relations". The earliest reference to the "Ivy colleges" came in 1933, when Stanley Woodward of the New York Herald Tribune used it to refer to the eight current members plus Army. In 1935, the Associated Press reported on an example of collaboration between the schools:

The athletic authorities of the so-called "Ivy League" are considering drastic measures to curb the increasing tendency toward riotous attacks on goal posts and other encroachments by spectators on playing fields.
Despite such collaboration, the universities did not seem to consider the formation of the league as imminent. Romeyn Berry, Cornell's manager of athletics, reported the situation in January 1936 as follows:

I can say with certainty that in the last five years—and markedly in the last three months—there has been a strong drift among the eight or ten universities of the East which see a good deal of one another in sport toward a closer bond of confidence and cooperation and toward the formation of a common front against the threat of a breakdown in the ideals of amateur sport in the interests of supposed expediency.
Please do not regard that statement as implying the organization of an Eastern conference or even a poetic "Ivy League". That sort of thing does not seem to be in the cards at the moment.
Within a year of this statement and having held month-long discussions about the proposal, on December 3, 1936, the idea of "the formation of an Ivy League" gained enough traction among the undergraduate bodies of the universities that the Columbia Daily Spectator, The Cornell Daily Sun, The Dartmouth, The Harvard Crimson, The Daily Pennsylvanian, The Daily Princetonian and the Yale Daily News would simultaneously run an editorial entitled "Now Is the Time", encouraging the seven universities to form the league in an effort to preserve the ideals of athletics. Part of the editorial read as follows:

The Ivy League exists already in the minds of a good many of those connected with football, and we fail to see why the seven schools concerned should be satisfied to let it exist as a purely nebulous entity where there are so many practical benefits which would be possible under definite organized association. The seven colleges involved fall naturally together by reason of their common interests and similar general standards and by dint of their established national reputation they are in a particularly advantageous position to assume leadership for the preservation of the ideals of intercollegiate athletics.
The Ivies have been competing in sports as long as intercollegiate sports have existed in the United States. Rowing teams from Harvard and Yale met in the first sporting event held between students of two U.S. colleges on Lake Winnipesaukee, New Hampshire, on August 3, 1852. Harvard's team, "The Oneida", won the race and was presented with trophy black walnut oars from then-presidential nominee General Franklin Pierce. The proposal to create an athletic league did not succeed. On January 11, 1937, the athletic authorities at the schools rejected the "possibility of a heptagonal league in football such as these institutions maintain in basketball, baseball and track." However, they noted that the league "has such promising possibilities that it may not be dismissed and must be the subject of further consideration."
The integration of athletics followed a similar pattern to the overall integration of the Ivy League's in the 19th and early 20th century. There was no active policy that would discriminate against incorporating Black student athletes into the athletic coalition. Harvard has the earliest record of breaking the color barrier in athletics after recruiting William Henry Lewis to their football team in 1892. Dartmouth followed suit, with Black athletes integrating onto their football teams in 1904. Brown integrated their football team shortly after, in 1916. Cornell would follow suit in 1937.

Penn had black students on their track and field team as early as 1903 (John Baxter Taylor, Jr., the first black athlete in the U.S. to win a gold medal in the Olympics) and a black student was named captain of the track team in 1918. Columbia's track and field team would be integrated in 1934. Basketball would become integrated at Yale in 1926, at Princeton in 1947.
In 1945 the presidents of the eight schools signed the first Ivy Group Agreement, which set academic, financial, and athletic standards for the football teams. The principles established reiterated those put forward in the Harvard-Yale-Princeton presidents' Agreement of 1916. The Ivy Group Agreement established the core tenet that an applicant's ability to play on a team would not influence admissions decisions:

The members of the Group reaffirm their prohibition of athletic scholarships. Athletes shall be admitted as students and awarded financial aid only on the basis of the same academic standards and economic need as are applied to all other students.
In 1954, the presidents extended the Ivy Group Agreement to all intercollegiate sports, effective with the 1955–56 basketball season. This is generally reckoned as the formal formation of the Ivy League. As part of the transition, Brown, the only Ivy that had not joined the EIBL, did so for the 1954–55 season. A year later, the Ivy League absorbed the EIBL. The Ivy League claims the EIBL's history as its own. Through the EIBL, it is the oldest basketball conference in Division I.

As late as the 1960s many of the Ivy League universities' undergraduate programs remained open only to men, with Cornell the only one to have been coeducational from its founding (1865) and Columbia being the last (1983) to become coeducational. Before they became coeducational, many of the Ivy schools maintained extensive social ties with nearby Seven Sisters women's colleges, including weekend visits, dances and parties inviting Ivy and Seven Sisters students to mingle. This was the case not only at Barnard College and Radcliffe College, which are adjacent to Columbia and Harvard, but at more distant institutions as well. The movie Animal House includes a satiric version of the formerly common visits by Dartmouth men to Massachusetts to meet Smith and Mount Holyoke women, a drive of more than two hours. As noted by Irene Harwarth, Mindi Maline, and Elizabeth DeBra, "The 'Seven Sisters' was the name given to Barnard, Smith, Mount Holyoke, Vassar, Bryn Mawr, Wellesley, and Radcliffe, because of their parallel to the Ivy League men's colleges."

In 1982 the Ivy League considered adding two members, with Army, Navy, and Northwestern as the most likely candidates; if it had done so, the league could probably have avoided being moved into the recently created Division I-AA (now Division I FCS) for football. In 1983, following the admission of women to Columbia College, Columbia University and Barnard College entered into an athletic consortium agreement by which students from both schools compete together on Columbia University women's athletic teams, which replaced the women's teams previously sponsored by Barnard.When Army and Navy departed the Eastern Intercollegiate Baseball League in 1992, nearly all intercollegiate competition involving the eight schools became united under the Ivy League banner. The major exception is hockey, with the Ivies that sponsor hockey—all except Penn and Columbia—members of ECAC Hockey. Wrestling was a second exception through the 2023-24 academic calendar; up until that point the Ivies that sponsor wrestling—all except Dartmouth and Yale— were members of the Eastern Intercollegiate Wrestling Association.
The Ivy League was the first athletic conference to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic by shutting down all athletic competition in March 2020, leaving many Spring schedules unfinished. The Fall 2020 schedule was canceled in July, and winter sports were canceled before Thanksgiving. Of the 357 men's basketball teams in Division I, only ten did not play; the Ivy League made up eight of those ten. By giving up its automatic qualifying bid to March Madness, the Ivy League forfeited at least $280,000 in NCAA basketball funds. As a consequence of the pandemic, an unprecedented number of student athletes in the Ivy League either transferred to other schools, or temporarily unenrolled in hopes of maintaining their eligibility to play post-pandemic. Some Ivy alumni expressed displeasure with the League's position. In February 2021 it was reported that Yale declined a multi-million dollar offer from alum Joseph Tsai to create a sequestered "bubble" for the lacrosse team. The league announced in a May 2021 joint statement that "regular athletic competition" would resume "across all sports" in fall 2021.
Following the Black Lives Matter protests in 2020, the Ivy League Conference committed itself to uphold "diversity, equity, and inclusion," to combat racism and homophobia. At Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Harvard, and Princeton there are Black Student Athlete groups and other affinity groups that are dedicated to ensuring their organizations are committed to anti-racism and anti-homophobia. In 2023, two former Brown University basketball players sued the Ivy League alleging that by denying athletic scholarships, the 1954 "Ivy League Agreement" is anticompetititive and violates antitrust laws. The lawsuit claims that the agreement constitutes price-fixing in violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890, and in effect raises the cost of Ivy League education for student athletes.
The Ivy League schools are highly selective, with seven out of the eight universities reporting undergraduate acceptance rates below 6%. Admitted students come from around the world, although those from the Northeastern United States make up a significant proportion of students.
In 2021, all eight Ivy League schools recorded record high numbers of applications and record low acceptance rates. Year-over-year increases in the number of applicants ranged from 14.5% at Princeton to 51% at Columbia.
There have been arguments that Ivy League schools discriminate against Asian-American candidates. For example, in August 2020, the U.S. Justice Department argued that Yale University discriminated against Asian-American candidates on the basis of their race, a charge the university denied. Harvard faced a similar challenge from Students for Fair Admissions, which ultimately won its case in the U.S. Supreme Court in 2023, leading to the end of affirmative action in college admissions.
Members of the League have been highly ranked by various university rankings. All of the Ivy League schools are consistently ranked within the top 20 national universities by the U.S. News & World Report Best Colleges Ranking.
Collaboration between the member schools is illustrated by the student-led Ivy Council that meets in the fall and spring of each year, with representatives from every Ivy League school. The governing body of the Ivy League is the Council of Ivy Group presidents, composed of each university president. During meetings, the presidents discuss common procedures and initiatives for their universities.
The universities collaborate academically through the IvyPlus Exchange Scholar Program, which allows students to cross-register at one of the Ivies or another eligible school such as Berkeley, Chicago, MIT, and Stanford.
Ivy League institutions have a complex history of racial segregation, and, eventually, integration. All of the universities in the Ivy League besides Cornell University were chartered during the American era of slavery. In 2003, Brown University was the first of the Ivies to take accountability for their historic ties to slavery and the transatlantic slave trade. Following Brown, other Ivy League universities formed committees to examine their ties to slavery, and found various institutional relationships to slavery. Yale University, for example, used profits from slave traders and owners to fund its first scholarships, libraries, and faculty positions. To date, some of Yale's residential colleges are named after slave traders and supporters. The investigations at Harvard, Princeton, Columbia, and the University of Pennsylvania all found that, in the century following their charters, enslaved Black people lived on campus to care for students, professors, or the universities' presidents. Notably, Princeton's first nine presidents were slave owners, and in 1766, a slave auction reportedly took place on Princeton's campus.
A small number of Black people did attend Ivy League institutions as students during their early years. These early students, however, were not always granted degrees. For example, some Black students were recorded studying privately with the Princeton University president as early as 1774, but no Black students received Princeton degrees until the middle of the twentieth century. Jonathan and Philip Gayienquitioga, two brothers of the Mohawk People, were the first people of color to enroll at Penn in 1755 after being recruited by Benjamin Franklin to attend the Academy of Philadelphia (then part of Penn). But there is no evidence that either earned a degree as the first Native American to graduate Penn did not occur until 1847 when Robert Daniel Ross, a member of the Cherokee Nation, graduated with a degree from Penn's medical school.
In 1900, W. E. B. Du Bois oversaw and edited The College-bred Negro. a study on Black integration in colleges and universities that found a combined total of 52 Black students had graduated from Ivy League schools in their collective histories. Since no official policies prohibited schools in the Ivy League from admitting students of color each university in the League had different policies regarding the admission of Black students. Dartmouth's first Black student graduated in 1828, while Princeton would only admit their first Black student under the V-12 Navy College Training Program in the 1940s.
Early Black student admits to Ivy League universities were controversial and often faced backlash. Dartmouth initially denied its first Black graduate, Edward Mitchell, supposedly to avoid "offend[ing] students". Dartmouth students protested this decision, leading to Mitchell's admission in 1824. Richard Henry Green was awarded an MD degree by Dartmouth College in 1864.
Harvard admitted its first Black student, Beverly Garnett Williams, in 1847. News of his admission incited protests by Harvard students and faculty. Williams died before the academic year began, however, and never matriculated. Richard Theodore Greener was the first African American to receive a Harvard degree in 1870. Between 1890 and 1940, an average of three Black men enrolled at Harvard per year. In 1923, Harvard's Board of Overseers overruled University President Abbot Lawrence's ban on Black students living in dorms, announcing that all freshmen would be permitted to live in dorms regardless of race, but upheld that “men of the white and colored races shall not be compelled to live and eat together." Brown seems to have refused admission to Black students outright prior to the Civil War. Abolitionist Elizabeth Buffum Chase wrote in her book Anti Slavery Reminiscences about "a lad of rare excellence and attainments [who] was refused an examination for admission by the authorities of Brown University on account of the color of his skin." Inman Page was the first Black student to graduate from Brown in 1877, and was class speaker.
William Adger, James Brister, and Nathan Francis Mossell were the first Black students enrolled at Penn in 1879. Brister graduated from the School of Dental Medicine (Penn Dental) in 1881 as the first African American to earn a degree from Penn, while Adger was the first African American to graduate from the college in 1883.
Columbia University has claimed that four Black students earned University degrees between 1875 and 1900, though their names are apparently unknown.
Yale's Edward Bouchet, was the first Black person (a) elected to Phi Beta Kappa in the US in 1874 and (b) to earn a Ph.D. from any American university, completing his dissertation in physics in 1876. Bouchet was thought to have been the first African-American graduate of Yale, but research publicized in 2014 reported that Yale awarded a Black man, Richard Henry Green, a bachelor of arts degree in 1857.
Cornell seemed the most inclusive of the Ivy Leagues at its inception, with admission open to any race and gender. University co-founder Andrew Dickson White wrote in 1874 that the school had "no colored students...at present but shall be very glad to receive any who are prepared to enter...if even one offered himself and passed the examinations, we should receive him even if all our five hundred white students were to ask for dismissal on that account." In 1890, Charles Chauveau Cook and Jane Eleanor Datcher were the first Black students awarded four-year undergraduate Cornell degrees. Despite this, Black students faced legal and social segregation in the town of Ithaca, New York. In 1905, Black students reported being denied housing while attending Cornell.

Princeton University, sometimes referred to as the "Southern-most Ivy", was the last to integrate. In Du Bois' The College-bred Negro (1900), a Princeton representative is quoted: "We have never had any colored students here, though there is nothing in the University statutes to prevent their admission. It is possible, however, in view of our proximity to the South and the large number of southern students here, that Negro students would find Princeton less comfortable than some other institutions." Notably, in 1939, Princeton revoked admittance to Black student Bruce Wright upon his arrival on campus, when Director of Admission Radcliffe Heermance noticed Wright's race. When a disappointed Wright wrote Heermance requesting an explanation, Heermance responded:"I cannot conscientiously advise a colored student to apply for admission to Princeton simply because I do not think that he would be happy in this environment. There are no colored students in the University and a member of your race might feel very much alone...My personal experience would enforce my advice to any colored student that he would be happier in an environment of others of his race, and that he would adjust himself far more easily to the life of a New England college or university, or one of the large state universities than he would to a residential college of this particular type."The few early Black students admitted to Ivy League universities were often from wealthy Caribbean families. Barriers preventing African American students from attending Ivy League universities included the universities' policies, poor recruitment, tuition costs, and the lack of secondary education opportunities in a racially segregated country. More Black students attended Ivy League graduate and professional schools than their undergraduate programs. By the middle of the 20th century, only 54 Black men and women had graduated with a Bachelor degree from Ivy League universities.
By the middle of the 20th century, some Ivy League students and alumni were advocating for increased racial integration efforts. These efforts were met with mixed reactions from the schools themselves. Without a goal for integration shared by the institutions as a collective, each school increased racial diversity at different rates, with Dartmouth having 120 Black undergraduates in the class of 1945 and Princeton having a cumulative total of fewer than 100 Black undergraduates by 1967.
The V-12 Navy College Training Program in 1942 effectively forced all eight Ivy institutions to increase Black student enrollment. At Princeton University, the Black students in this program were the first ever granted bachelor's degrees by the University.
The 1954 Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education did not require private universities like those in the Ivy League to abide by the ruling. It wasn't until the Court's 1976 decision in Runyon v. McCrary that private institutions became legally prohibited from discriminating on the basis of race. By the early 1960s, however, some admissions offices in the Ivy League began to make concerted efforts to increase their number of Black applicants, rolling out initiatives that actively sought Black talent from high schools. Efforts for racial integration at Ivy League institutions relied on the support of student organizations, faculty-led initiatives, and third-party organizations like the National Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro Students to seek prospective Black applicants. These efforts also prompted internal University action, such as the creation of Cornell's Committee on Special Educational Projects (COSEP), an organization aimed to recruit and support Black students. By 1965, however, Black students still were only 2% of admitted students across all the Ivies.
Prior to the 1960s, the majority of Ivy League universities explicitly prohibited the admission of women, instead forming partnerships with nearby women's colleges. As such, Black women were not able to attend Ivy League universities until they changed their policies. Lillian Lincoln Lambert was the first Black woman to receive a degree from Harvard University after graduating with a master's degree from Harvard Business School in 1969. Lincoln Lambert was also a founding member of Harvard's African American Student Union, which according to her, actively recruited Black students and created "a space where Black students could find not only support but resources for everything from barber shops that cut Black hair to churches."
As Black student populations grew at Ivy League schools, on-campus activism saw an increase during the civil rights movement. In 1969, students in Cornell's Afro-American Society led an armed occupation of Willard Straight Hall to protest the university's racist policies and “its slow progress in establishing a Black studies program.” In the same year, students associated with Yale's New Left organization, Students for a Democratic Society, worked closely with the New Haven Black Panthers to lead sit-ins and protests that advocated for the admission of more students of color and the establishment of an African American studies department. At Brown University, identity-based student organizations such as the United African People and the African American Society called for an increase to the number of Black faculty and increased attention to the needs of Black students. Demonstrations at Harvard and Columbia took the form of occupations and non-violent sit-ins that were often subject to forceful removal by local police called by University administrators. Activism at Dartmouth took a different shape during this time period, as students would use demonstrations that were happening at other Ivies and colleges around the country, to effectively position their demands for progress within the prospect of taking actions similar to those happening elsewhere.
Continuing the trajectory of the late 20th century, the number of Black students on Ivy League campuses has continued to increase in the 21st century. From 2006 to 2018, there was an approximated 50% increase in the admission of Black students into entering classes, growing from 1,110 to 1,663. As of 2018, the Ivy League universities unanimously supported Harvard University's “race-conscious admissions” model. Harvard University representatives credited this form of affirmative action as one of the factors increasing campus diversity.
In 2014 case Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action, 572 U.S. 291 (2014) — the Supreme Court upheld Michigan's ban on affirmative action for public institutions and in 2016 inFisher v. University of Texas II, No. 14-981, 579 U.S. ___ (2016) the court upheld the university's limited use of race in admissions decisions because the university showed it had a clear goal of limited scope without other workable race-neutral means to achieve it.
However, in 2023 — Students for Fair Admissions v. President and Fellows of Harvard College, No. 20-1199, 600 U.S. ___ (2023) the United States Supreme Court overruled the decades old decisionsRegents of University of California v. Bakke and Grutter v. Bollinger and other cases mentioned above in this paragraph but disallowing non-individualized racial preferences in admissions for civilian universities. 
In essence, the court interpreted the Fourteenth Amendment as not permitting Harvard's “race-conscious admissions” as the court decision now forbids the consideration of race in higher education admissions.
Institutions in favor of Harvard's model argue that in addition to academic excellence they also aim to form a diverse student body, while individuals that argue against the model state that it is discriminatory against certain applicants.
The growing Black student population in Ivy League universities in the early 2000s was accompanied by an increase in the number of Black faculty at these institutions, though rates of change among faculty have been slower and inconsistent. In 2005, 588– or about 3.9%– of the Ivies' 14,831 full-time faculty members were Black. This proportion decreased to 3.4% in 2015. Notably, in 2001, Ruth J. Simmons became the president of Brown University, making her the first and only Black president of an Ivy League institution.
The 21st century saw the continuation of demonstrations by Ivy League students revolving around race. Many of these demonstrations have sought to continue the work of their 20th century predecessors by advocating for increased admission and support of Black students. In light of the Students for Fair Admissions v. President and Fellows of Harvard College Supreme Court case, students from Yale and Harvard joined other universities in protesting in defense of race-conscious admissions policies.
Likewise, Black students from Ivy League institutions continue to protest for the betterment of Black students' lives on campus and beyond. Following Michael Brown's death in 2014, students across the Ivies formed the Black Ivy Coalition, which included members from all eight institutions and aimed to combat anti-Black racism. Individual Ivy League universities also formed their own advocacy organizations and movements as a direct response to instances of anti-Black violence. After the murder of Michael Brown, Princeton University students formed the Black Justice League, which in 2015, occupied Nassau Hall and presented a list of demands to university administrators. Similarly, in 2017, Cornell students made demands to their administration protesting the assault of a Black student. Led by Black Students United, the demands included banning the Psi Upsilon fraternity for hate crimes, implementing implicit bias training, and introducing policies to increase the number of Black students at the university.
Student demonstrations have also focused on sparking change beyond Ivy League campuses. Following the Black Lives Matter protests in 2020, Harvard's Black Law Students Association, beyond calling for more Black faculty, critical race theory curriculum, and protection for student protestors, also called on the university to divest from prisons and denounce state-sanctioned violence.
In response to racially charged incidents across the country and prompting from student activists, Ivy League universities have removed and renamed campus landmarks. In response to the 2016 Black Lives Matter protests, Cornell renamed their botanical gardens, previously called the "Cornell Plantations," to the "Cornell Botanical Gardens." In 2018, Brown renamed one of its largest academic and administrative buildings after its first black graduates, Inman E. Page and Ethel Tremaine Robinson. In response to the murder of George Floyd in 2020, Princeton University removed Woodrow Wilson's name from a residential college and the School of Public and International Affairs because of his “racist thinking and policies.”
Different fashion trends and styles have emerged from Ivy League campuses over time, and fashion trends such as Ivy League and preppy are styles often associated with the Ivy League and its culture.
Ivy League style is a style of men's dress, popular during the late 1950s, believed to have originated on Ivy League campuses. The clothing stores J. Press and Brooks Brothers represent perhaps the quintessential Ivy League dress manner. The Ivy League style is said to be the predecessor to the preppy style of dress.
Preppy fashion started around 1912 to the late 1940s and 1950s as the Ivy League style of dress. J. Press represents the quintessential preppy clothing brand, stemming from the collegiate traditions that shaped the preppy subculture. In the mid-twentieth century J. Press and Brooks Brothers, both being pioneers in preppy fashion, had stores on Ivy League school campuses, including Harvard, Yale, and Princeton.
Some typical preppy styles also reflect traditional upper class New England leisure activities, such as equestrian, sailing or yachting, hunting, fencing, rowing, lacrosse, tennis, golf, and rugby. Longtime New England outdoor outfitters, such as L.L. Bean, became part of conventional preppy style. This can be seen in sport stripes and colors, equestrian clothing, plaid shirts, field jackets and nautical-themed accessories. Vacationing in Palm Beach, Florida, long popular with the East Coast upper class, led to the emergence of bright colors combinations in leisure wear seen in some brands such as Lilly Pulitzer. By the 1980s, other brands such as Lacoste, Izod and Dooney & Bourke became associated with preppy style.
Though the Ivy League style is most commonly associated with the white, male elites that historically made up Ivy League campuses, the style was quickly popularized among Black communities during the civil rights era. Reinterpretations of this style by African-American men in the 1950s and 1960s combined the preppy Ivy League style with other popular Black styles of dress. This led to the emergence of a new style of dress, the Black Ivy style.
Today, Ivy League styles continue to be popular on Ivy League campuses, throughout the U.S., and abroad, and are oftentimes labeled as "Classic American style" or "Traditional American style".
The Ivy League is often associated with the upper class White Anglo-Saxon Protestant community of the Northeast, Old money, or more generally, the American upper middle and upper classes. Although most Ivy League students come from upper-middle and upper-class families, the student body has become increasingly more economically and ethnically diverse. The universities provide significant financial aid to help increase the enrollment of lower income and middle class students. Several reports suggest, however, that the proportion of students from less-affluent families remains low.
Phrases such as "Ivy League snobbery" are ubiquitous in nonfiction and fiction writing of the early and mid-twentieth century. A Louis Auchincloss character dreads "the aridity of snobbery which he knew infected the Ivy League colleges". A business writer, warning in 2001 against discriminatory hiring, presented a cautionary example of an attitude to avoid (the bracketed phrase is his):

We Ivy Leaguers [read: mostly white and Anglo] know that an Ivy League degree is a mark of the kind of person who is likely to succeed in this organization.
The phrase Ivy League historically has been perceived as connected not only with academic excellence but also with social elitism. In 1936, sportswriter John Kieran noted that student editors at Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Princeton, Cornell, Dartmouth, and Penn were advocating the formation of an athletic association. In urging them to consider "Army and Navy and Georgetown and Fordham and Syracuse and Brown and Pitt" as candidates for membership, he exhorted:

It would be well for the proponents of the Ivy League to make it clear (to themselves especially) that the proposed group would be inclusive but not "exclusive" as this term is used with a slight up-tilting of the tip of the nose.
Aspects of Ivy stereotyping were illustrated during the 1988 presidential election, when George H. W. Bush (Yale '48) derided Michael Dukakis (graduate of Harvard Law School) for having "foreign-policy views born in Harvard Yard's boutique." New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd asked "Wasn't this a case of the pot calling the kettle elite?" Bush explained, however, that, unlike Harvard, Yale's reputation was "so diffuse, there isn't a symbol, I don't think, in the Yale situation, any symbolism in it. ... Harvard boutique to me has the connotation of liberalism and elitism" and said Harvard in his remark was intended to represent "a philosophical enclave" and not a statement about class. Columnist Russell Baker opined that "Voters inclined to loathe and fear elite Ivy League schools rarely make fine distinctions between Yale and Harvard. All they know is that both are full of rich, fancy, stuck-up and possibly dangerous intellectuals who never sit down to supper in their undershirt no matter how hot the weather gets." Still, the next five consecutive presidents all attended Ivy League schools for at least part of their education—George H. W. Bush (Yale undergrad), Bill Clinton (Yale Law School), George W. Bush (Yale undergrad, Harvard Business School), Barack Obama (Columbia undergrad, Harvard Law School), and Donald Trump (Penn undergrad).  Indeed, since 1989, Joe Biden has been the only president to not be Ivy League-educated.
Of the 45 persons who have served as President of the United States, 16 have graduated from an Ivy League university with either a Bachelor's or advanced degree. Of them, eight have degrees from Harvard, five from Yale, three from Columbia, two from Princeton and one from Penn. Twelve presidents have earned Ivy undergraduate degrees. Four of these were transfer students: Woodrow Wilson transferred from Davidson College, Barack Obama transferred from Occidental College, Donald Trump transferred from Fordham University, and John F. Kennedy transferred from Princeton to Harvard. John Adams was the first president to graduate from college, graduating from Harvard in 1755.
Students of the Ivy League largely hail from the Northeast, largely from the New York City, Boston, and Philadelphia areas. As all eight Ivy League universities are within the Northeast, most graduates end up working and residing in the Northeast after graduation. An unscientific survey of Harvard seniors from the Class of 2013 found that 42% hailed from the Northeast and 55% overall were planning on working and residing in the Northeast. Boston and New York City are traditionally where many Ivy League graduates end up living.
Students of the Ivy League, both graduate and undergraduate, come primarily from upper middle and upper class families. In recent years, however, the universities have looked towards increasing socioeconomic and class diversity, by providing greater financial aid packages to applicants from lower, working, and lower middle class American families.
In 2013, a Harvard Crimson writer estimated that 46% of Harvard undergraduate students came from families in the top 3.8% of all American households (i.e., over $200,000 annual income). In 2012, the bottom 25% of the American income distribution accounted for only 3–4% of students at Brown, a figure that had remained unchanged since 1992. In 2014, 69% of incoming freshmen students at Yale College came from families with annual incomes of over $120,000, putting most Yale College students in the upper-middle and upper classes. (The median household income in the U.S. in 2013 was $52,700.)
In the 2011–2012 academic year, students qualifying for Pell Grants (federally funded scholarships on the basis of need) constituted 20% at Harvard, 18% at Cornell, 17% at Penn, 16% at Columbia, 15% at Dartmouth and Brown, 14% at Yale, and 12% at Princeton. Nationally, 35% of American university students qualify for a Pell Grant.
Ivy champions are recognized in sixteen men's and sixteen women's sports. In some sports, Ivy teams actually compete as members of another league, the Ivy championship being decided by isolating the members' records in play against each other; for example, the six league members who participate in ice hockey do so as members of ECAC Hockey, but an Ivy champion is extrapolated each year. In one sport, rowing, the Ivies recognize team champions for each sex in both heavyweight and lightweight divisions. While the Intercollegiate Rowing Association governs all four sex- and bodyweight-based divisions of rowing, the only one that is sanctioned by the NCAA is women's heavyweight. The Ivy League was the last Division I basketball conference to institute a conference postseason tournament; the first tournaments for men and women were held at the end of the 2016–17 season. The tournaments only award the Ivy League automatic bids for the NCAA Division I Men's and Women's Basketball Tournaments; the official conference championships continue to be awarded based solely on regular-season results. Before the 2016–17 season, the automatic bids were based solely on regular-season record, with a one-game playoff (or series of one-game playoffs if more than two teams were tied) held to determine the automatic bid. The Ivy League is one of only two Division I conferences which award their official basketball championships solely on regular-season results; the other is the Southeastern Conference. Since its inception, an Ivy League school has yet to win either the men's or women's Division I NCAA basketball tournament.

On average, each Ivy school has more than 35 varsity teams. All eight are in the top 20 for number of sports offered for both men and women among Division I schools. Unlike most Division I athletic conferences, the Ivy League prohibits the granting of athletic scholarships; all scholarships awarded are need-based (financial aid). In addition, the Ivies have a rigid policy against redshirting, even for medical reasons; an athlete loses a year of eligibility for every year enrolled at an Ivy institution. Additionally, the Ivies prohibit graduate students from participating in intercollegiate athletics, even if they have remaining athletic eligibility. The only exception to the ban on graduate students was that seniors graduating in 2021 were allowed to play at their current institutions as graduate students in 2021–22. This was a one-time-only response to the Ivies shutting down most intercollegiate athletics in 2020–21 due to COVID-19. Ivy League teams' non-league games are often against the members of the Patriot League, which have similar academic standards and athletic scholarship policies (although unlike the Ivies, the Patriot League allows both redshirting and play by eligible graduate students). To promote diversity and inclusion, student-athletes are required to have their gender pronouns listed on their roster pages on the athletic websites for most Ivy League schools.
In the time before recruiting for college sports became dominated by those offering athletic scholarships and lowered academic standards for athletes, the Ivy League was successful in many sports relative to other universities in the country. In particular, Princeton won 26 recognized national championships in college football (last in 1935), and Yale won 18 (last in 1927). Both of these totals are considerably higher than those of other historically strong programs such as Alabama, which has won 15, Notre Dame, which claims 11 but is credited by many sources with 13, and USC, which has won 11. Yale, whose coach Walter Camp was the "Father of American Football," held on to its place as the all-time wins leader in college football throughout the entire 20th century, but was finally passed by Michigan on November 10, 2001. Harvard, Yale, Princeton and Penn each have over a dozen former scholar-athletes enshrined in the College Football Hall of Fame. Currently Dartmouth holds the record for most Ivy League football titles, with 18, followed closely by Harvard and Penn, each with 17 titles. In addition, the Ivy League has produced Super Bowl winners Kevin Boothe (Cornell), two-time Pro Bowler Zak DeOssie (Brown), Sean Morey (Brown), All-Pro selection Matt Birk (Harvard), Calvin Hill (Yale), Derrick Harmon (Cornell) and Justin Watson (wide receiver), (three-time Super Bowl champion, winning Super Bowl LV with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Super Bowl LVII and LVIII with the Kansas City Chiefs), (Penn).

Beginning with the 1982 football season, the Ivy League has competed in Division I-AA (renamed FCS in 2006). The Ivy League teams are eligible for the FCS tournament held to determine the national champion, and the league champion is eligible for an automatic bid (and any other team may qualify for an at-large selection) from the NCAA. However, from its inception in 1956 until 2024, the Ivy League had not played any postseason games due to concerns about the extended December schedule's effects on academics. (The last postseason game for a member was 91 years ago, the 1934 Rose Bowl, won by Columbia.) For this reason, any Ivy League team invited to the FCS playoffs turned down the bid. The Ivy League plays a strict 10-game schedule, compared to other FCS members' schedules of 11 (or, in some seasons, 12) regular season games, plus post-season, which expanded in 2013 to five rounds with 24 teams, with a bye week for the top eight teams. Football had been the only sport in which the Ivy League declined to compete for a national title.  However, beginning in 2025, the Ivy League will participate in the FCS playoffs, with its conference champion automatically qualifying for the tournament.
In addition to varsity football, Penn and Cornell also field teams in the 9-team Collegiate Sprint Football League, in which all players must weigh 178 pounds or less. With Princeton canceling its program in 2016, Penn is the last remaining founding members of the league from its 1934 debut, and Cornell is the next-oldest, joining in 1937. Yale and Columbia previously fielded teams in the league but no longer do so.
Notes:
1: Though the Ivy League lists ice hockey as a sponsored sport, all six ice hockey playing Ivy League schools participate as members of ECAC Hockey.
Notes:
1: Though the Ivy League lists ice hockey as a sponsored sport, all six ice hockey playing Ivy League schools participate as members of ECAC Hockey.
2. The Ivy League is home to some of the oldest college rugby teams in the United States. Although none of the men's teams and half of the women's teams are not "varsity" sports, they all compete against each other as part of the Ivy Rugby Conference in addition to their own local conferences. Four of the women's teams (Brown, Dartmouth, Harvard, and Princeton) play as part of the NCAA emerging sport category.
The table above includes the number of team championships won from the beginning of official Ivy League competition (1956–57 academic year) through 2016–17. Princeton and Harvard have on occasion won ten or more Ivy League titles in a year, an achievement accomplished 10 times by Harvard and 24 times by Princeton, including a conference-record 15 championships in 2010–11. Only once has one of the other six schools earned more than eight titles in a single academic year (Cornell with nine in 2005–06). In the 38 academic years beginning 1979–80, Princeton has averaged 10 championships per year, one-third of the conference total of 33 sponsored sports.
In the 12 academic years beginning 2005–06 Princeton has won championships in 31 different sports, all except wrestling and men's tennis.
Rivalries run deep in the Ivy League. For instance, Princeton and Penn are longstanding men's basketball rivals; "Puck Frinceton" T-shirts are worn by Quaker fans at games. In only 11 instances in the history of Ivy League basketball, and in only seven seasons since Yale's 1962 title, has neither Penn nor Princeton won at least a share of the Ivy League title in basketball, with Princeton champion or co-champion 26 times and Penn 25 times. Penn has won 21 outright, Princeton 19 outright. Princeton has been a co-champion 7 times, sharing 4 of those titles with Penn (these 4 seasons represent the only times Penn has been co-champion).
Harvard won its first title of either variety in 2011, losing a dramatic play-off game to Princeton for the NCAA tournament bid, then rebounded to win outright championships in 2012, 2013, and 2014. Harvard also won the 2013 Great Alaska Shootout, defeating TCU to become the only Ivy League school to win the now-defunct tournament.
Rivalries exist between other Ivy league teams in other sports, including Cornell and Harvard in hockey, Harvard and Princeton in swimming, and Harvard and Penn in football (Penn and Harvard have won 28 Ivy League Football Championships since 1982, Penn-16; Harvard-12). During that time Penn has had 8 undefeated Ivy League Football Championships and Harvard has had 6 undefeated Ivy League Football Championships. In men's lacrosse, Cornell and Princeton are perennial rivals, and they are two of three Ivy League teams to have won the NCAA tournament. In 2009, the Big Red and Tigers met for their 70th game in the NCAA tournament. No team other than Harvard or Princeton has won the men's swimming conference title outright since 1972, although Yale, Columbia, and Cornell have shared the title with Harvard and Princeton during this time. Similarly, no program other than Princeton and Harvard has won the women's swimming championship since Brown's 1999 title. Princeton or Cornell has won every indoor and outdoor track and field championship, both men's and women's, every year since 2002–03, with one exception (Columbia women won the indoor championship in 2012). Harvard and Yale are football and crew rivals although the competition has become unbalanced; Harvard has won all but one of the last 15 football games and all but one of the last 13 crew races.
The Yale–Princeton series is the nation's second-longest by games played, surpassed only by "The Rivalry" between Lehigh and Lafayette, which began later in 1884 but included two or three games in each of 17 early seasons. For the first three decades of the Yale-Princeton rivalry, the two played their season-ending game at a neutral site, usually New York City, and with one exception (1890: Harvard), the winner of the game also won at least a share of the national championship that year, covering the period 1869 through 1903. This phenomenon of a finale contest at a neutral site for the national title created a social occasion for the society elite of the metropolitan area akin to a Super Bowl in the era prior to the establishment of the NFL in 1920. These football games were also financially profitable for the two universities, so much that they began to play baseball games in New York City as well, drawing record crowds for that sport also, largely from the same social demographic. In a period when the only professional team sports were fledgling baseball leagues, these high-profile early contests between Princeton and Yale played a role in popularizing spectator sports, demonstrating their financial potential and raising public awareness of Ivy universities at a time when few people attended college.
This list, which is current through January 8, 2018, includes NCAA championships and women's AIAW championships (one each for Yale and Dartmouth and five for Cornell). Excluded from this list are all other national championships earned outside the scope of NCAA competition, including football titles and retroactive Helms Foundation titles.
The term Ivy is sometimes used to connote a positive comparison to or an association with the Ivy League, often along academic lines. The term has been used to describe the Little Ivies, a grouping of small liberal arts colleges in the Northeastern United States. Other common uses include the Public Ivies, the Hidden Ivies, the Southern Ivies, and the Black Ivies.
The term Ivy Plus refers to the original eight Ivy league institutions along with four other institutions consisting of Duke University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Stanford University, and the University of Chicago. Beyond rankings and prestige, the four schools are included in the grouping given their formal participation in academic exchange programs, university consortia, shared academic resources, collaborative alumni associations, or endowment comparisons.
Big Three—an athletic rivalry between Harvard, Yale, and Princeton.
List of Ivy League medical schools—schools of the Ivy League universities that offer medical education.
List of Ivy League law schools—schools of the Ivy League universities that offer various law degrees.
List of Ivy League business schools—schools of the Ivy League universities that offer various business degrees, especially the MBA.
List of Ivy League public policy schools—schools of the Ivy League universities that offer public policy or public administration degrees.
Black Ivy League—informal list of private historically black colleges and universities that have historically been seen as the African American equivalent to the Ivy League
Little Ivies—private liberal arts colleges that historically have had the same social prestige and similar large financial endowments as the Ivy league.
Public Ivy—public colleges & universities that are perceived to provide an education equal to the Ivy League.
Seven Sisters—seven liberal arts colleges previously open to only women with historical affiliations to the Ivy League.

Official websiteThe Malcolm S. Forbes Jr. '70 College is one of the seven residential colleges that house all freshmen and sophomores at Princeton University.  One of the two first residential colleges at Princeton (along with Mathey College), it was originally called Princeton Inn College after the former hotel where it is housed. Following a gift to the school by Malcolm S. Forbes Sr. '41 in 1984 in honor of his son, Steve, the college was renamed Forbes. Steve's daughter, Catherine Forbes '99, was a member of Forbes College while attending Princeton.

Buildings
The college consists of two main parts, each with a subsection: The Main Inn and its subsidiary New Wing, and the Addition, with its Annex.  In addition, a two-story house adjacent to Forbes, 99 Alexander Street (nicknamed "the Pink House"), houses up to 10 juniors per year.  The Main Inn and its New Wing were originally part of The Princeton Inn, a hotel with a colonial fieldstone style.
The hotel was built by the architect Andrew Jackson Thomas in 1923–1924.
It was a popular among parents visiting their sons (and young ladies visiting students at the all-male university).  The New Wing was added in 1946, built of red brick. To the south of the main building, is the Annex with additional housing.  The hotel was acquired by the university in 1970, and the Addition (designed by J. Robert Hillier '59) was built connecting the Annex and the Main Inn. From 1970 to 1983 the hotel was called the Princeton Inn College, which cultivated a unique campus culture; residents were called "Innmates" and T-shirts with the slogan "Die For the INN" (an intramural sports battle cry) still remain in circulation.  Forbes is also said to foster a more close-knit community and social life, because of its unique set up. The Forbes College Addition includes a single-sex floor, one of only two in the Princeton University residential colleges.
Forbes has some excellent amenities. These include private bathrooms for many of the suites (for rooms in the former hotel portions, plus a few in the Addition), and a dining hall, library, theater, and café that can be reached without ever going outdoors.  The dining hall was noted for outstanding Sunday brunch. Forbes is also close to the late-night snack mecca, Wawa ("the Wa").

Affiliations
Prior to 2023, Forbes was a two-year college, paired with nearby Whitman College. Only first- and second-year students (with the exception of several upperclass Residential College Advisors) lived in Forbes. Forbesians who wished to live in a residential college past their sophomore year may have moved into one of the three four-year colleges, Whitman, Mathey, or Butler.  Since Forbes is paired with Whitman College, priority for housing in Whitman is given to students who spent their first two years living in Forbes or Whitman.  Therefore, although it is possible for a Forbesian to move into any of the three four-year colleges after sophomore year, it is most advantageous for them to move into Whitman.
Starting in 2023, all residential colleges became four-year colleges.

Life at Forbes
Activities and events
Forbes College hosts a diverse range of intellectual, social, and cultural events.
Over dinner, about two to three times a semester, invited guests speak to Forbes residents about their travels, their work or research, their latest publication, or simply provoke with some unconventional ideas.
Friday afternoons at 4:00 p.m., the College Office staff invite students to join them for tea and pastries and some informal conversation on just about anything.
The Music Society encourages performances by student artists and brings a number of music related events to Forbes each year. Performers have included instrumentalists, singers, chamber groups, the University Chamber Orchestra, the Jazz Ensemble, folk singers, and classical ensembles.
Forbes College participates vigorously in the university's program of intramural sports, and has been the residential college champion 11 out of 22 years. Men's, women's, and co-ed teams are formed in many different sports.  Forbes finished this past year with a significant lead.
The Forbes Film Society (FFS) hosts regular film screenings, discussions, and lectures related to cinema. Members of the Forbes community are encouraged to join the FFS and participate in organizing screening schedules, to work as projectionists, and to share in the pleasure of watching and discussing a good movie in the company of friends.

Facilities
Forbes College facilities include a TV lounge, a large and a small dining room, a multi-purpose room, a seminar room, music practice rooms, a black box theater, an art and ceramics studio, a dance studio, a library, study rooms, a cafe, a multi-media lab, a darkroom, game room, and an organic garden.
The Norman Thomas 1905 Library at Forbes College contains a general collection, reference books and periodicals, as well as an extensive science fiction collection.

College Council
The Forbes College Council (FCC) consists of  twelve to fifteen representatives of the student body. The Council organizes and coordinates College activities, which include social and cultural events, trips, and films, and makes proposals on the allocation of student activities funds. The weekly meetings are open to any Forbesian. The FCC works hand in hand with the College Office to plan events.

References
External links
Forbes College website
The college consists of two main parts, each with a subsection: The Main Inn and its subsidiary New Wing, and the Addition, with its Annex.  In addition, a two-story house adjacent to Forbes, 99 Alexander Street (nicknamed "the Pink House"), houses up to 10 juniors per year.  The Main Inn and its New Wing were originally part of The Princeton Inn, a hotel with a colonial fieldstone style.
The hotel was built by the architect Andrew Jackson Thomas in 1923–1924.
It was a popular among parents visiting their sons (and young ladies visiting students at the all-male university).  The New Wing was added in 1946, built of red brick. To the south of the main building, is the Annex with additional housing.  The hotel was acquired by the university in 1970, and the Addition (designed by J. Robert Hillier '59) was built connecting the Annex and the Main Inn. From 1970 to 1983 the hotel was called the Princeton Inn College, which cultivated a unique campus culture; residents were called "Innmates" and T-shirts with the slogan "Die For the INN" (an intramural sports battle cry) still remain in circulation.  Forbes is also said to foster a more close-knit community and social life, because of its unique set up. The Forbes College Addition includes a single-sex floor, one of only two in the Princeton University residential colleges.
Forbes has some excellent amenities. These include private bathrooms for many of the suites (for rooms in the former hotel portions, plus a few in the Addition), and a dining hall, library, theater, and café that can be reached without ever going outdoors.  The dining hall was noted for outstanding Sunday brunch. Forbes is also close to the late-night snack mecca, Wawa ("the Wa").
Prior to 2023, Forbes was a two-year college, paired with nearby Whitman College. Only first- and second-year students (with the exception of several upperclass Residential College Advisors) lived in Forbes. Forbesians who wished to live in a residential college past their sophomore year may have moved into one of the three four-year colleges, Whitman, Mathey, or Butler.  Since Forbes is paired with Whitman College, priority for housing in Whitman is given to students who spent their first two years living in Forbes or Whitman.  Therefore, although it is possible for a Forbesian to move into any of the three four-year colleges after sophomore year, it is most advantageous for them to move into Whitman.
Starting in 2023, all residential colleges became four-year colleges.
Forbes College hosts a diverse range of intellectual, social, and cultural events.
Over dinner, about two to three times a semester, invited guests speak to Forbes residents about their travels, their work or research, their latest publication, or simply provoke with some unconventional ideas.
Friday afternoons at 4:00 p.m., the College Office staff invite students to join them for tea and pastries and some informal conversation on just about anything.
The Music Society encourages performances by student artists and brings a number of music related events to Forbes each year. Performers have included instrumentalists, singers, chamber groups, the University Chamber Orchestra, the Jazz Ensemble, folk singers, and classical ensembles.
Forbes College participates vigorously in the university's program of intramural sports, and has been the residential college champion 11 out of 22 years. Men's, women's, and co-ed teams are formed in many different sports.  Forbes finished this past year with a significant lead.
The Forbes Film Society (FFS) hosts regular film screenings, discussions, and lectures related to cinema. Members of the Forbes community are encouraged to join the FFS and participate in organizing screening schedules, to work as projectionists, and to share in the pleasure of watching and discussing a good movie in the company of friends.
Forbes College facilities include a TV lounge, a large and a small dining room, a multi-purpose room, a seminar room, music practice rooms, a black box theater, an art and ceramics studio, a dance studio, a library, study rooms, a cafe, a multi-media lab, a darkroom, game room, and an organic garden.
The Norman Thomas 1905 Library at Forbes College contains a general collection, reference books and periodicals, as well as an extensive science fiction collection.
The Forbes College Council (FCC) consists of  twelve to fifteen representatives of the student body. The Council organizes and coordinates College activities, which include social and cultural events, trips, and films, and makes proposals on the allocation of student activities funds. The weekly meetings are open to any Forbesian. The FCC works hand in hand with the College Office to plan events.
Forbes College websiteWhitman College is one of seven residential colleges at Princeton University, New Jersey, United States. The college is named after Meg Whitman, a former CEO of eBay, who donated $30 million to build the college. The structures were designed by the architect  Demetri Porphyrios, the winner of the 2004 Driehaus Prize. Whitman College was completed in the fall of 2007, and first occupied during the 2007–08 academic year.
Whitman is a four-year residential college, open to students of all four academic classes. Its sister college is Forbes College. Although it is possible for any upperclassman to live in Whitman, priority for housing room draw is given to those upperclassmen who lived in either Whitman or Forbes as underclassmen.

The current head of Whitman is Claire F. Gmachl; she is the Eugene Higgins Professor of Electrical Engineering at Princeton University. The Dean is Dr. Jaclyn Schwalm. The Assistant Dean/Director of Studies is Dr. Matthew Newmam, the Assistant Dean/Director of Student Life is Momo Wolapaye, the Program Administrator is Kristin Frasier, and the Office Coordinator is Sara Krause.  Josue Lajeunesse, a custodian at Whitman College, is a main subject of the documentary film The Philosopher Kings, and is also an active humanitarian working to make clean water accessible to the people of his home village of Lasource, Haiti.
The residential college comprises seven dormitories: Baker Hall, Hargadon Hall, Fisher Hall, Lauritzen Hall, Class of 1981 Hall, Murley-Pivirotto Family Tower, and Wendell Hall.  The college's dining hall is called Community Hall, so named not for the University community but rather after the eBay community.
Whitman College participates in seasonal intramural athletics, including soccer, volleyball and Ultimate Frisbee. Whitman also organizes a variety of other recreational activities, including a craft circle and the Jane Austen literary society.
In 2007, the college was criticized in a Bloomberg Businessweek article for its "over-the-top comforts."

"It's only fitting that Whitman College, Princeton's new student residence, is named for eBay CEO Meg Whitman, because it's a billionaire's mansion in the form of a dorm... Each student room has triple-glazed mahogany casement windows made of leaded glass. The dining hall boasts a 35-foot ceiling gabled in oak and a 'state of the art servery.' By the time the 10-building complex in the Collegiate Gothic style opened in August, it had cost Princeton $136 million... Gold-plating new dorms raises issues of taste and donor ego. More than before, impressionable students and ambitious parents have come to view college as a form of conspicuous consumption."

References
External links

Official website
[1]

Official website
[1]Lee D. Butler College is one of the seven residential colleges of Princeton University, founded in 1983.  It houses about 500 freshmen and sophomores, 100 juniors and seniors, 10 Resident Graduate Students, a faculty member in residence, as well as a small number of upperclass Residential College Advisors.  Butler is a four-year college, paired with the former First College.  This means juniors and seniors are permitted to live in Butler, with priority for housing given to undergraduates who spent their first two years in either Butler or First.
It was opened in 1983 as Lee D. Butler College, the fourth college to be founded, and named after benefactor Lee D. Butler (class of 1922).
As of the fall of 2009, Butler's main quad consists of newly constructed dormitories. These new constructed dormitories were designed by Pei Cobb Freed & Partners Architects LLP and structurally engineered by Leslie E. Robertson Associates. These dorms replaced a set of older dormitories, formerly known collectively as the "New New Quad", built in the 1960s and demolished in 2007.  The dormitories now comprising Butler are 1915 Hall, 1967 Hall, 1976 Hall, Bloomberg Hall, Bogle Hall, Wilf Hall, and Yoseloff Hall. 1915 Hall is an older building, while Bloomberg Hall opened in 2004 and the other dormitories opened in 2009. As part of the construction of Hobson College, 1915 Hall is scheduled to be demolished in the summer of 2022. 
The dining hall of the college was Gordon Wu Hall, which was renovated during the summer of 2009 along with the adjacent First College dining hall, Wilcox Hall.  As a result of this renovation, Wu and Wilcox shared a servery and kitchen, while separate dining areas.  This arrangement is the same as that used by the Rockefeller College and Mathey College dining halls, which were renovated in 2007. In 2022, with the demolition of First College, Wilcox Hall closed, as did Wu Hall in 2023. Butler College's official dining hall is now Whitman College's, though students often tend to also eat at the shared New College West-Yeh College Choi Dining Hall, or the dining hall at the campus Center for Jewish Life.

References
External links
Princeton University: Butler College
Princeton University: Butler CollegeYeh College (provisionally known as New College East until 2022, and Residential College 7 until 2021) is the seventh residential college at Princeton University. It opened at the beginning of the academic year in September 2022. The construction of Yeh College increased the undergraduate student body population by 10 percent, or 500 students. It aims to be LEED Gold certified. Deborah Berke Partners are the architects of the new buildings. A sister college, tentatively titled New College West, was built adjacent to Yeh College, and shares the same dining facility. New College West houses students displaced by the demolition of First College, which is to be replaced with Hobson College in 2027.


== References ==New College West is the sixth residential college at Princeton University.  The construction of New College West helped to increase the undergraduate student body population by 10 percent, or 500 students. It aims to be LEED Gold certified. Deborah Berke Partners are the architects of the new buildings. New College West is adjacent to Yeh College, and shares the same dining facility. New College West houses students displaced by the demolition of First College, which is to be replaced with Hobson College in 2026.

Perelman family donation
The college was originally made possible by a $65 million gift from the Perelman Family Foundation, run by Debra '96 and Ronald Perelman. Prior to the removal of the Perelman name in 2021, it would have been the first residential college at Princeton to be named after Jewish people. 
In June 2021, Princeton University removed the Perelman name from New College West after the Perelman Family Foundation ceased payments to the University under their gift agreement.


== References ==
The college was originally made possible by a $65 million gift from the Perelman Family Foundation, run by Debra '96 and Ronald Perelman. Prior to the removal of the Perelman name in 2021, it would have been the first residential college at Princeton to be named after Jewish people. 
In June 2021, Princeton University removed the Perelman name from New College West after the Perelman Family Foundation ceased payments to the University under their gift agreement.


== References ==John D. Rockefeller 3rd College, or "Rocky", is one of seven residential colleges at Princeton University. It was founded in 1982, making it the third residential college to be established at Princeton. It is named for John D. Rockefeller 3rd, Princeton Class of 1929, who served as a major donor and longtime trustee of the University.
The college is located in the northwestern corner of the Princeton campus and is largely composed of Collegiate Gothic style structures.  Madison Hall, home of the college dining hall, office, and common spaces, and the dorms Holder Hall, Buyers Hall (formerly "East Blair Hall"), and part of Campbell Hall are presently part of Rockefeller College.  Witherspoon Hall, built in 1877, is the oldest building in the college, and is characteristically Richardsonian Romanesque, a style which predates the Collegiate Gothic.
The college is home to roughly 500 first years and sophomores and a small number of upperclassmen. The college staff is led by the head (a faculty member), and also includes a dean, a director of studies, a college administrator, a college secretary, and two graduate student assistant masters.  The current master of Rockefeller College is Clancy Rowley, Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering.  A council of current students also contributes to college life, organizing trips, study breaks, and other opportunities.
Beginning with the 2007–2008 school year, Rockefeller College has, along with Princeton's other residential colleges, catered to upperclassmen as well as underclassmen, with new programs and advising. The college now houses mostly first year and sophomore students, with some spaces for juniors and seniors in addition to Residential College Advisors.
Rockefeller College's common room, Holder Hall, and Blair Arch (which adjoins Buyers Hall but is technically a part of Mathey College) were all featured in the film A Beautiful Mind.

References
External links
Rockefeller College website
Rockefeller College websiteMathey College is one of seven residential colleges at Princeton University. Located in the Northwest corner of the Princeton Campus, its dormitories and other buildings are predominantly in the Collegiate Gothic style. Since the fall of 2007, Mathey has been a four-year residential college, paired with Rockefeller College.
Most of Mathey College is centered on a large central courtyard featuring a sand volleyball court. Campbell Hall, Joline Hall, Blair Hall, Hamilton Hall (with the dining hall and common room), Edwards Hall, and some of Little Hall (since fall 2007) make up the residential college.  Hamilton Hall, Little Hall, and Edwards Hall are not on the main courtyard, though they are near to it.
Mathey College is famous for Blair Arch, featured prominently in the movie A Beautiful Mind. As the largest arch at Princeton, Blair Arch hosts many arch sings, a cappella concerts held in the arch.
Mathey College is named after Dean Mathey of the Class of 1912, who was a prominent member of the Princeton community.
The current dean is Dr. Michael Olin, and the current Head of the College, as of the fall of 2018, is Professor Stacey Sinclair of the Psychology Department.

External links
Official website
Official websiteThe Princeton Tigers are the athletic teams of Princeton University. The school sponsors 35 varsity teams in 20 sports. The school has won several NCAA national championships, including one in men's fencing, three in women's lacrosse, six in men's lacrosse, and eight in men's golf. Princeton's men's and women's crews have also won numerous national rowing championships. The field hockey team made history in 2012 as the first Ivy League team to win the NCAA Division I Championship in field hockey.

Teams
Source:

Basketball
Men's basketball
Princeton's basketball team is perhaps the best-known team within the Ivy League. Its most notable upset was the 1996 defeat of defending NCAA champion UCLA in the tournament's opening round, Carril's final collegiate victory. In 1989, the team almost became the only #16 seed to win, losing to Georgetown 50–49. During that 29-year span, Pete Carril won thirteen Ivy League championships and received eleven NCAA berths and two NIT bids. Princeton placed third in the 1965 NCAA Tournament and won the NIT championship in 1975. The deliberate "Princeton offense" is a legacy of his coaching career.
From 1992 to 2001, a nine-year span, the men's basketball team entered the NCAA tournament four times. Notably, the Ivy League has never had an at-large entry in the NCAA tournament. For the last half-century, Princeton and the University of Pennsylvania have traditionally battled for men's basketball dominance in the Ivy League; Princeton had its first losing season in 50 years of Ivy League basketball in 2005. Princeton tied the record for fewest points in a Division I game since the 3-point line started in 1986–87 when they scored 21 points in a loss against Monmouth University on December 14, 2005.
The 1924–25 team was retroactively named the national champion by the Helms Athletic Foundation and the Premo-Porretta Power Poll.

Women's basketball
Princeton's varsity women's basketball program is the strongest in the Ivy League, carrying on the tradition of the men's championship basketball program. The team had an especially good season in 2015, with a 31–0 record, a national NCAA Division 1 ranking among the top 25 teams, and entering the field of 32 teams remaining in the 2015 NCAA Women's Division I Basketball Tournament.

Football
The football team competes in the Football Championship Subdivision of NCAA Division I with the rest of the Ivy League. As of 2021, Princeton claims 28 national football championships, which would make it the most of any school, although the NCAA only recognizes 15 of the wins. Twenty-one former players have been inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame.
The first football game played between teams representing American colleges was an unfamiliar ancestor of today's college football because it was played under soccer-style London Football Association rules. The game, between Rutgers College (now Rutgers University) and the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University), took place on November 6, 1869, at College Field (now the site of the College Avenue Gymnasium at Rutgers University) in New Brunswick, New Jersey. Rutgers won by a score of six "runs" to Princeton's four. The 1869 game between Rutgers and Princeton is notable because it is the first documented game of any sport called "football" between two American colleges. It is also noteworthy because it occurred two years before a codified rugby game would be played in England. The Princeton/Rutgers game was significantly different from American rules football today but, nonetheless, it was the first inter-collegiate football contest in the United States. Another similar game took place between Rutgers and Columbia University in 1870 and a third notable game took place between Tufts University and Harvard University in 1875.  The popularity of intercollegiate competition in football would spread throughout the country shortly thereafter.
Princeton's football helmets are also the basis for Michigan Wolverines football team's famed winged helmets, as introduced by Fritz Crisler, the coach at Princeton before he was hired as the coach of the University of Michigan.

Sprint
In addition to the varsity Tigers, Princeton, like a number of other Ivy League schools, also fielded a sprint football squad for players 172 pounds and lighter from 1934 to 2015. The lightweight Tigers won at least a share of the league title eight times, five of those being from between 1937 and 1942. Their last championship, split with the Army Cadets, came in 1989. The Tigers sprint squad collapsed in 1999, which began a losing streak that spanned parts of 17 seasons and 106 games (a collegiate football record), including at least four forfeits; by the end of the 2015 season, Princeton's athletics department determined that the addition of several schools whose sole football team was a sprint squad (and thus were teams that could get all of the best players at their respective schools) and the loss of most of the Ivy League schools, along with the inability of Princeton to recruit more and better players for the team without compromising its other athletic programs or its academic standards, meant that the team would likely be hopelessly outmatched and that this would pose a safety hazard for the players they could recruit. This conclusion led Princeton to drop sprint football in April 2016.

Golf
Men's golf
The men's golf team have won 12 national championships, and they have won the Ivy League title 26 times. They have had seven NCAA individual champions: Louis Bayard, Jr. (1987), Percy Pyne (1899), Frank Reinhart (1903), Albert Seckel (1909), Simpson Dean (1921) and George Dunlap (1930 and 1931).

Women's golf
The women's golf team was founded as a club sport in 1978, coached by Betty Whelan. A group called "Friends of Women's Golf" began fundraising immediately, and the group began lobbying for inclusion as a varsity sport. After ten years of being denied varsity status by the university, representatives from the team contacted the ACLU asking for assistance and raising the possibility of a lawsuit under the protections of Title IX of the Civil Rights Act. In 1991, the university committed to supporting a varsity women's golf program.
After becoming a varsity team, women's golf too the Northeast championships in 1995, and Mary Moan won the first Ivy League individual championship in 1997. The team won its first Ivy League title in 1999.

Ice hockey
Men's ice hockey
Princeton University had an ice hockey team organized already during the 1894–95 season, when the school still went by the name of College of New Jersey. On March 3, 1895 the university ice hockey team faced a Baltimore aggregation at the North Avenue Ice Palace in Baltimore, Maryland and won by a score of 5–0. The players on the 1895 team were Chester Derr, John Brooks, Howard Colby, James Blair, Frederick Allen, Ralph Hoagland and Art Wheeler.

Women's ice hockey
On November 24, 1979, the Princeton Tigers played their first varsity game against the University of Pennsylvania. They play at the Hobey Baker Memorial Rink. 
In the 2019–2020 season, they won their first ECAC championship, defeating #1 ranked Cornell by a score of 3–2 in overtime.

Lacrosse
Men's lacrosse
The university's men's lacrosse team has enjoyed significant success since the early 1990s and is widely recognized as a perennial powerhouse in the Division I ranks. The team has won 27 Ivy League titles and six national titles.

Women's lacrosse
The Princeton Tigers women's lacrosse team has won 3 NCAA championships.

Rowing
Rowing was introduced to Princeton in 1870 by a handful of undergraduates who bought two old boats with their own funds and formed an impromptu "navy" on the Delaware and Raritan Canal. The construction of Lake Carnegie in 1906 enabled the sport to expand and laid the foundation for today's rowing program at Princeton. More recently, an $8 million upgrade and expansion of the existing boathouse in 2000 formed Shea Rowing Center, one of the finest rowing facilities in the country.
With 150 athletes, 60 rowing shells, and 12 coaches, trainers, and boat riggers, crew is the largest varsity sport at Princeton, and one of the most successful. In recent years, from 2000 through 2010, Princeton varsity crews (both men's and women's) won a total of 14 Eastern Sprints, IRA (national), and NCAA championships, as well as two international events at Henley Royal Regatta.
The Princeton boathouse is often a summer base for U.S. national teams in training, and many Princeton rowers and coaches have gone on to compete at the World Rowing Championships and the Olympics.

Rugby
Men's rugby
Princeton has a long tradition in the game of rugby in the US, having played Rutgers University in 1869 the first United States intercollegiate game, which, according to U.S. Soccer, used rules that resembled rugby union and association football and had little resemblance to gridiron American football 
Princeton rugby was reorganized in 1931 under the leadership of Monte Barak, Hugh Sloan H.F. Langenberg, and coach John Boardman Whitton. It has been playing continuously ever since. Over 5,000 people attended the inaugural Harvard - Princeton game in 1931. The men's rugby team was Ivy League champions in 2004, 1979, 1977, 1973, 1971 and 1969.

Women's rugby
The women's rugby team was national champions in 1995 and 1996. Princeton women advanced to the Final Four in 1997, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2004 and 2005. 35 Princeton women have been named All-Americans. The team will become Princeton's 19th varsity program for women starting in the 2022–23 academic year.

Soccer
Men's soccer
Princeton's soccer roots trace to the first de facto college football game held in 1869 v Rutgers University, with rules based on The Football Association) is considered the first "not official" collegiate soccer match and the birth of the sport in the United States.
The team is one of the oldest active soccer clubs in the United States, playing their first official match in November 1906. The team has won ten Ivy League and eight ICSFA tournaments.

Softball
Princeton's softball team appeared in the Women's College World Series in 1995 and 1996.

Squash
Men's squash
The men have won 18 Ivy League championships. They are a four-time winner of the Squash Sloane Award for Team Sportsmanship.

Swimming and Diving
Men's swimming and diving
The men have a long history of success in the Ivy League, winning the Ivy League title 30 times. The program's history also includes NCAA relay titles in 1989 and 1990, and 1992 Olympic gold medalist Nelson Diebel.

Tennis
Pablo Eisenberg, who went on to become a professional tennis player at Wimbledon and a gold medal winner in the Maccabiah Games in Israel, as well as a scholar and social justice advocate, played tennis for Princeton in 1952, 1953, and 1954.

Track and field
Women's track and field
Princeton's women's track & field team experienced success under coach Peter Farrell, winning a combined 18 Ivy League titles for its outdoor and indoor team. Farrell was the one who founded the women's track and field team in 1977 and stayed their head coach until 2016 when he retired.

Volleyball
Men's volleyball
The men's volleyball program achieved varsity status in 1997 – though it had competed for two decades as a club sport before then – and competes in the Eastern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association.
The Tigers have the honor of being one of only two teams since the formation of the EIVA in 1988 to win the EIVA championship and advance to the NCAA Men's National Collegiate Volleyball Championship, with every other title having been won by the Penn State Nittany Lions. The Tigers bested the Nittany Lions in the 1998 EIVA semifinals, and they then went on to beat Rutgers-Newark; as a result, they won the 1998 EIVA championship and gained a spot in the NCAA tournament.
The Tigers have had three players earn All-American honors – Marin Gjaja '91, Derek Devens '98 and Cody Kessel '14.

Wrestling
The Princeton Tiger Wrestling team was started in 1905. The Princeton wrestling team competes in Dillon Gym.
Jadwin Gym has served host to five previous EIWA Championships (1969, 1979, 1981, 1987 and 2012), as well as both the 1975 and 1981 NCAA Wrestling Championships. The current head coach is Joe Dubuque. 
Princeton has two national champions to its credit: Bradley Glass in 1951 and Pat Glory in 2023.

Championships
NCAA team championships
Princeton has 24 NCAA team national championships.

Men's (19)
Golf † (12): 1914, 1916, 1919, 1920, 1922, 1923, 1927, 1928, 1929, 1930, 1937, 1940
Lacrosse (6): 1992, 1994, 1996, 1997, 1998, 2001
Fencing (1): 1964
Women's (4)
Field Hockey  (1): 2012
Lacrosse  (3): 1994, 2002, 2003
Co-ed (1)
Fencing (1): 2013
† The NCAA started sponsoring the intercollegiate golf championship in 1939, but it retained the titles from the 41 championships previously conferred by the National Intercollegiate Golf Association in its records.

School spirit
Cheerleading
Princeton played a significant role in the history of American cheerleading. Cheers have been noted on the Princeton campus at least as early as 1860 (though not necessarily in an athletic context).  By 1869, cheers were common at athletic events, including baseball and football home and away games, and at practices. Thomas Peebles, Princeton class of 1882, brought the Princeton cheers to the University of Minnesota where he was football coach. There, Peebles had students lead organized chants during football games. However, the term "cheer-leader" was used at Princeton as early as 1897.

Tiger mascot
The Tiger nickname originated from the practice of football players wearing orange and black stripes on their clothing, which led sportswriters to call them "tigers." An undergraduate dressed as a tiger mascot began appearing at football and basketball games in the 1940s.

Princeton University Band
The Princeton University Band was founded in 1919, and played its first public performance at the Princeton-Maryland football game of October 9, 1920. The band started as a formal marching band, but by the 1970s had transformed into a scramble band.

Facilities
The stadium is Princeton Stadium, which replaced Palmer Stadium in 1998. Baseball is played at Bill Clarke Field. Basketball is played at Jadwin Gymnasium. Ice hockey is played at Baker Rink. Soccer is played at Roberts Stadium. Lacrosse is played at Class of 1952 Stadium. The men's and women's volleyball teams and the wrestling team compete at Dillon Gymnasium. All crews train at Shea Rowing Center and compete on Lake Carnegie. The Rugby Team plays at Rickerson Field on West Windsor Fields.

See also
List of NCAA schools with the most Division I national championships
List of college athletic programs in New Jersey, USA#Division I
List of Princeton University Olympians

References
External links

Official website
Source:
Princeton's basketball team is perhaps the best-known team within the Ivy League. Its most notable upset was the 1996 defeat of defending NCAA champion UCLA in the tournament's opening round, Carril's final collegiate victory. In 1989, the team almost became the only #16 seed to win, losing to Georgetown 50–49. During that 29-year span, Pete Carril won thirteen Ivy League championships and received eleven NCAA berths and two NIT bids. Princeton placed third in the 1965 NCAA Tournament and won the NIT championship in 1975. The deliberate "Princeton offense" is a legacy of his coaching career.
From 1992 to 2001, a nine-year span, the men's basketball team entered the NCAA tournament four times. Notably, the Ivy League has never had an at-large entry in the NCAA tournament. For the last half-century, Princeton and the University of Pennsylvania have traditionally battled for men's basketball dominance in the Ivy League; Princeton had its first losing season in 50 years of Ivy League basketball in 2005. Princeton tied the record for fewest points in a Division I game since the 3-point line started in 1986–87 when they scored 21 points in a loss against Monmouth University on December 14, 2005.
The 1924–25 team was retroactively named the national champion by the Helms Athletic Foundation and the Premo-Porretta Power Poll.
Princeton's varsity women's basketball program is the strongest in the Ivy League, carrying on the tradition of the men's championship basketball program. The team had an especially good season in 2015, with a 31–0 record, a national NCAA Division 1 ranking among the top 25 teams, and entering the field of 32 teams remaining in the 2015 NCAA Women's Division I Basketball Tournament.
The football team competes in the Football Championship Subdivision of NCAA Division I with the rest of the Ivy League. As of 2021, Princeton claims 28 national football championships, which would make it the most of any school, although the NCAA only recognizes 15 of the wins. Twenty-one former players have been inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame.
The first football game played between teams representing American colleges was an unfamiliar ancestor of today's college football because it was played under soccer-style London Football Association rules. The game, between Rutgers College (now Rutgers University) and the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University), took place on November 6, 1869, at College Field (now the site of the College Avenue Gymnasium at Rutgers University) in New Brunswick, New Jersey. Rutgers won by a score of six "runs" to Princeton's four. The 1869 game between Rutgers and Princeton is notable because it is the first documented game of any sport called "football" between two American colleges. It is also noteworthy because it occurred two years before a codified rugby game would be played in England. The Princeton/Rutgers game was significantly different from American rules football today but, nonetheless, it was the first inter-collegiate football contest in the United States. Another similar game took place between Rutgers and Columbia University in 1870 and a third notable game took place between Tufts University and Harvard University in 1875.  The popularity of intercollegiate competition in football would spread throughout the country shortly thereafter.
Princeton's football helmets are also the basis for Michigan Wolverines football team's famed winged helmets, as introduced by Fritz Crisler, the coach at Princeton before he was hired as the coach of the University of Michigan.
In addition to the varsity Tigers, Princeton, like a number of other Ivy League schools, also fielded a sprint football squad for players 172 pounds and lighter from 1934 to 2015. The lightweight Tigers won at least a share of the league title eight times, five of those being from between 1937 and 1942. Their last championship, split with the Army Cadets, came in 1989. The Tigers sprint squad collapsed in 1999, which began a losing streak that spanned parts of 17 seasons and 106 games (a collegiate football record), including at least four forfeits; by the end of the 2015 season, Princeton's athletics department determined that the addition of several schools whose sole football team was a sprint squad (and thus were teams that could get all of the best players at their respective schools) and the loss of most of the Ivy League schools, along with the inability of Princeton to recruit more and better players for the team without compromising its other athletic programs or its academic standards, meant that the team would likely be hopelessly outmatched and that this would pose a safety hazard for the players they could recruit. This conclusion led Princeton to drop sprint football in April 2016.
The men's golf team have won 12 national championships, and they have won the Ivy League title 26 times. They have had seven NCAA individual champions: Louis Bayard, Jr. (1987), Percy Pyne (1899), Frank Reinhart (1903), Albert Seckel (1909), Simpson Dean (1921) and George Dunlap (1930 and 1931).
The women's golf team was founded as a club sport in 1978, coached by Betty Whelan. A group called "Friends of Women's Golf" began fundraising immediately, and the group began lobbying for inclusion as a varsity sport. After ten years of being denied varsity status by the university, representatives from the team contacted the ACLU asking for assistance and raising the possibility of a lawsuit under the protections of Title IX of the Civil Rights Act. In 1991, the university committed to supporting a varsity women's golf program.
After becoming a varsity team, women's golf too the Northeast championships in 1995, and Mary Moan won the first Ivy League individual championship in 1997. The team won its first Ivy League title in 1999.
Princeton University had an ice hockey team organized already during the 1894–95 season, when the school still went by the name of College of New Jersey. On March 3, 1895 the university ice hockey team faced a Baltimore aggregation at the North Avenue Ice Palace in Baltimore, Maryland and won by a score of 5–0. The players on the 1895 team were Chester Derr, John Brooks, Howard Colby, James Blair, Frederick Allen, Ralph Hoagland and Art Wheeler.
On November 24, 1979, the Princeton Tigers played their first varsity game against the University of Pennsylvania. They play at the Hobey Baker Memorial Rink. 
In the 2019–2020 season, they won their first ECAC championship, defeating #1 ranked Cornell by a score of 3–2 in overtime.
The university's men's lacrosse team has enjoyed significant success since the early 1990s and is widely recognized as a perennial powerhouse in the Division I ranks. The team has won 27 Ivy League titles and six national titles.
The Princeton Tigers women's lacrosse team has won 3 NCAA championships.
Rowing was introduced to Princeton in 1870 by a handful of undergraduates who bought two old boats with their own funds and formed an impromptu "navy" on the Delaware and Raritan Canal. The construction of Lake Carnegie in 1906 enabled the sport to expand and laid the foundation for today's rowing program at Princeton. More recently, an $8 million upgrade and expansion of the existing boathouse in 2000 formed Shea Rowing Center, one of the finest rowing facilities in the country.
With 150 athletes, 60 rowing shells, and 12 coaches, trainers, and boat riggers, crew is the largest varsity sport at Princeton, and one of the most successful. In recent years, from 2000 through 2010, Princeton varsity crews (both men's and women's) won a total of 14 Eastern Sprints, IRA (national), and NCAA championships, as well as two international events at Henley Royal Regatta.
The Princeton boathouse is often a summer base for U.S. national teams in training, and many Princeton rowers and coaches have gone on to compete at the World Rowing Championships and the Olympics.
Princeton has a long tradition in the game of rugby in the US, having played Rutgers University in 1869 the first United States intercollegiate game, which, according to U.S. Soccer, used rules that resembled rugby union and association football and had little resemblance to gridiron American football 
Princeton rugby was reorganized in 1931 under the leadership of Monte Barak, Hugh Sloan H.F. Langenberg, and coach John Boardman Whitton. It has been playing continuously ever since. Over 5,000 people attended the inaugural Harvard - Princeton game in 1931. The men's rugby team was Ivy League champions in 2004, 1979, 1977, 1973, 1971 and 1969.
The women's rugby team was national champions in 1995 and 1996. Princeton women advanced to the Final Four in 1997, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2004 and 2005. 35 Princeton women have been named All-Americans. The team will become Princeton's 19th varsity program for women starting in the 2022–23 academic year.
Princeton's soccer roots trace to the first de facto college football game held in 1869 v Rutgers University, with rules based on The Football Association) is considered the first "not official" collegiate soccer match and the birth of the sport in the United States.
The team is one of the oldest active soccer clubs in the United States, playing their first official match in November 1906. The team has won ten Ivy League and eight ICSFA tournaments.
Princeton's softball team appeared in the Women's College World Series in 1995 and 1996.
The men have won 18 Ivy League championships. They are a four-time winner of the Squash Sloane Award for Team Sportsmanship.
The men have a long history of success in the Ivy League, winning the Ivy League title 30 times. The program's history also includes NCAA relay titles in 1989 and 1990, and 1992 Olympic gold medalist Nelson Diebel.
Pablo Eisenberg, who went on to become a professional tennis player at Wimbledon and a gold medal winner in the Maccabiah Games in Israel, as well as a scholar and social justice advocate, played tennis for Princeton in 1952, 1953, and 1954.
Princeton's women's track & field team experienced success under coach Peter Farrell, winning a combined 18 Ivy League titles for its outdoor and indoor team. Farrell was the one who founded the women's track and field team in 1977 and stayed their head coach until 2016 when he retired.
The men's volleyball program achieved varsity status in 1997 – though it had competed for two decades as a club sport before then – and competes in the Eastern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association.
The Tigers have the honor of being one of only two teams since the formation of the EIVA in 1988 to win the EIVA championship and advance to the NCAA Men's National Collegiate Volleyball Championship, with every other title having been won by the Penn State Nittany Lions. The Tigers bested the Nittany Lions in the 1998 EIVA semifinals, and they then went on to beat Rutgers-Newark; as a result, they won the 1998 EIVA championship and gained a spot in the NCAA tournament.
The Tigers have had three players earn All-American honors – Marin Gjaja '91, Derek Devens '98 and Cody Kessel '14.
The Princeton Tiger Wrestling team was started in 1905. The Princeton wrestling team competes in Dillon Gym.
Jadwin Gym has served host to five previous EIWA Championships (1969, 1979, 1981, 1987 and 2012), as well as both the 1975 and 1981 NCAA Wrestling Championships. The current head coach is Joe Dubuque. 
Princeton has two national champions to its credit: Bradley Glass in 1951 and Pat Glory in 2023.
Princeton has 24 NCAA team national championships.

Men's (19)
Golf † (12): 1914, 1916, 1919, 1920, 1922, 1923, 1927, 1928, 1929, 1930, 1937, 1940
Lacrosse (6): 1992, 1994, 1996, 1997, 1998, 2001
Fencing (1): 1964
Women's (4)
Field Hockey  (1): 2012
Lacrosse  (3): 1994, 2002, 2003
Co-ed (1)
Fencing (1): 2013
† The NCAA started sponsoring the intercollegiate golf championship in 1939, but it retained the titles from the 41 championships previously conferred by the National Intercollegiate Golf Association in its records.
Princeton played a significant role in the history of American cheerleading. Cheers have been noted on the Princeton campus at least as early as 1860 (though not necessarily in an athletic context).  By 1869, cheers were common at athletic events, including baseball and football home and away games, and at practices. Thomas Peebles, Princeton class of 1882, brought the Princeton cheers to the University of Minnesota where he was football coach. There, Peebles had students lead organized chants during football games. However, the term "cheer-leader" was used at Princeton as early as 1897.
The Tiger nickname originated from the practice of football players wearing orange and black stripes on their clothing, which led sportswriters to call them "tigers." An undergraduate dressed as a tiger mascot began appearing at football and basketball games in the 1940s.
The Princeton University Band was founded in 1919, and played its first public performance at the Princeton-Maryland football game of October 9, 1920. The band started as a formal marching band, but by the 1970s had transformed into a scramble band.
The stadium is Princeton Stadium, which replaced Palmer Stadium in 1998. Baseball is played at Bill Clarke Field. Basketball is played at Jadwin Gymnasium. Ice hockey is played at Baker Rink. Soccer is played at Roberts Stadium. Lacrosse is played at Class of 1952 Stadium. The men's and women's volleyball teams and the wrestling team compete at Dillon Gymnasium. All crews train at Shea Rowing Center and compete on Lake Carnegie. The Rugby Team plays at Rickerson Field on West Windsor Fields.
List of NCAA schools with the most Division I national championships
List of college athletic programs in New Jersey, USA#Division I
List of Princeton University Olympians

Official websiteColonial Club is one of the eleven current eating clubs of Princeton University in Princeton, New Jersey, United States. Founded in 1891, it is the fifth oldest of the clubs. It is located on 40 Prospect Avenue.
A private social club for undergraduates at Princeton University, the club was referred to as "flamboyant Colonial" in F. Scott Fitzgerald's debut novel, This Side of Paradise, and was defined as being one of the "top five" clubs along with Ivy, Cottage, Cap & Gown, and Tiger Inn. As the first eating club to both abandon the selective bicker process and become coeducational in 1969, Colonial Club has been heralded for its progressive legacy.
Colonial Club has been affiliated with over 7 Rhodes Scholars and several Valedictorians of Princeton University. Among the Princetonians who were involved in the World War II code-breaking at Bletchley Park,
some were allegedly from Colonial Club.
The club has served as the primary social scene for several notable alumni during their undergraduate years, including former Colonial Club Vice President Joseph Nye '58, co-founder of the international relations theory of neoliberalism, Pete Conrad '53, third man to walk on the Moon, Eric Schmidt '76, executive chairman of Alphabet Inc. and former CEO of Google, and Ted Cruz '92, U.S. Senator and candidate for the Republican nomination for President of the United States in the 2016 election.

Clubhouse
The club occupies a large mansion on the north side of Prospect Avenue in Princeton, NJ.  The building is easily recognizable by its four large white columns fashioned in Colonial style. The current building has served as the clubhouse for Colonial since 1906. After originally occupying several locations farther away from campus, the current house was built during a time of strong rivalry between eating clubs, across the street from rival clubs Ivy and Cottage.

Colonial's first clubhouse was located on 306 Nassau Street and served as the club's residence for only one year. In 1892,  the club moved to a house on 186 Nassau Street fashioned in the period's cottage architecture, featuring a front facade in the Queen Anne style. The club subsequently moved to Prospect Avenue in 1897, taking over the old Ivy Club house and changing the exterior by adding decorative columns and enlarging the lower floor. This third clubhouse lasted 9 years until the current clubhouse was built, funded by the issuance of bonds to graduate members and alumni. The new clubhouse was designed by associated architects Robert W. Gibson and Francis G. Stewart of New York City.
The current clubhouse features a wide variety of facilities, including a large foyer, cloak room, dining hall, kitchen, library, home theatre, game and billiards room, taproom, computer cluster, offices, various study rooms, and over a dozen bedrooms. The club's undergraduate officers reside in the mansion's third floor.

History
Early history
Foundation
Founded in 1891 under the presidency of H.P. 'Bert' Fisher '93, the club was formed by a group of 13 Princeton University juniors, who originally called themselves the "Plug and Ulster Club." The club's founders initially encountered opposition by the president of the college, Reverend Francis L. Patton, who opposed to the establishment of a boy's club adjacent to Evelyn College, Princeton's coordinate women's college. After agreeing to several provisions, Colonial Club was founded and situated itself in an old Virginian, three-story veranda house. The original section consisted of several notable students including Booth Tarkington, founder of the Princeton Triangle Club. The club later was formerly incorporated in 1896 as The Colonial Club of Princeton University.

Great War Era
After the sinking of the Lusitania, military training became the principal activity on campus. Only a few of the eating clubs remained open during this time. Colonial Club temporarily considered combining with Tiger Inn until the full membership of the various clubs returned to college after the war. Almost the entire 1917 section left college to enter various branches of service, and the entirety of the 1919 section was drafted, leading to the closing of the club. Several club members perished during World War I, including John G. Agar Jr. '14, Joseph M. Duff Jr. '12, Gordon C. Gregory '18, and Samuel F. Pogue '04. Colonial Club's 1920 section managed to revive the club after the war, under the guidance of W. Irving Harris '20 and Harvey S. Firestone Jr. '20, who later was chairman of the board of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company.

Great Depression and WWII
Surprisingly, Colonial Club enjoyed its biggest years in the thirties. The original 1933 section of thirty men was the largest that had ever entered the club up to that time, most of whom were students in the university's Politics Department. According to the Colonial Club 100th Anniversary Book, the most striking feature of the club proved to be the members' "bland unawareness of the significance of outside events in those days...few believed that the invasion of Manchuria or Hitler's rise to power carried a personal threat to us."

Colonial Club's tradition of having its formal club dinners in New York began in 1934 in an effort to bring together graduate and undergraduate members. The tradition has continued into the 21st century, with member and alumni dinners commonly held at the Princeton Club of New York.
In the 1940s, Colonial Club continued to hold its place as one of the "Big Five" socially prominent eating clubs, along with Ivy, Cottage, Cap & Gown, and Tiger Inn. At the time, 80% of the members came from private preparatory schools, largely in New York, Philadelphia, and Boston, with the primary campus activity being Triangle Club and crew. Membership dropped during World War II, with over 18 members ranging from the 1914 section to the 1941 section perishing in the conflict.

Cold War era
After the world war, however, Colonial's extravagant style and activities returned to the club's normal affairs. Nearly $15,000 (around $150,000 in 2016) was once spent to hire Lester Lanin's Orchestra, and parties reminiscent of those in the Roaring Twenties became a staple of club life. By the end of the 50s, many of the traditional social amenities of earlier eras began to fade; buffet style became fashionable in lieu of the club's traditional white tablecloths, linen napkins, and waiters.

In the 60s, the club experienced several changes. The clubhouse's third floor bedrooms, which long held the staff of waiters, were renovated into rooms for members. Variable section sizes and a drop in alumni financial support occasionally led to tough financial situations for the club. During this time, Colonial became the first of the clubs to go non-selective in 1969. This move, strongly encouraged by university officials, coincided with the club's admittance of female members. Unlike some of the other eating clubs including Ivy Club, which did not allow women until a lawsuit in 1991, Colonial permitted women to join once Princeton University began to admit women as undergraduates in the same year. The inclusion of women in the club's daily life noticeably led to more small parties and events around the clubhouse.
The club's financial difficulties gradually continued into the 70s and 80s, during which the club's Graduate Board of Governors considered closing the club. Efforts by several of the undergraduate officers, including president Jaime Isbester and vice president April Gilbert, kept the club afloat via a fundraising campaign that raised more than $650,000 (over $2 million in 2016). Graduate members including Jack Dorrance '41, then chairman of the Campbell Soup Company, single-handedly donated over $100,000 in the club's Centennial Campaign.

Modern history
2000s
Interest in the club reached a low point in 1999 when only 26 members of the class of 2001 signed into Colonial. Aggressive event planning by the classes of 2000 and 2001, along with generous alumni support and an enthusiastic and dedicated class of 2002, brought the club back from the brink. This was at least the third time the club had been rescued from near-oblivion; 1982 and 1988 also had seen very low sign-in numbers. In 2010, however, Colonial managed to recruit only 13 members in the first round of sign-ins; this was a massive drop from the 87 first round sign-ins from the previous year. The club was still able to attract a substantial number of new members during the second round of sign-ins that same year. In 2011, a huge turnaround occurred when over 130 sophomores signed into the club, which was the largest number of sophomores to join any of the eating clubs.
Throughout this period, the club has seen both the size and demographics of each section shift drastically. Nonetheless, the openness of the club, as demonstrated in 1969, remained a hallmark of the club's culture and shaped the club into the next decade.

Club culture
Activities and traditions
Continuing its established traditions originating from the Roaring Twenties, Colonial frequently hosts events for its members and guests including game nights, intramural sports, semiformals, and winter and spring house parties. The club also participates in events such as trivia night, club field days, bonfires, outdoor BBQs, and therapy dog study breaks.
As with other the eating clubs, Colonial has participated in the university's annual Lawnparties music festival, hosting artists such as Between Friends, Crash Adams, and Weston Estate in recent years. Traditions at Colonial include its annual medieval feast and thesis phrase, where members attempt to insert a humorous line into their Princeton University senior thesis.

Colonial's large, white columns are often seen illuminated by lights on Friday nights, when the club is open to students of Princeton University and other members of the Princeton community.
As an eating club, Colonial members often have breakfast, lunch, and dinner at the clubhouse daily, with brunch served on the weekends. The club's buffet-style meals often feature an open grill, smoothie station, and panini bar. Other popular options include the club's fresh oysters, BBQ ribs, udon, fish tacos, Korean short ribs, and pork buns. In the 1960s, Colonial was the second of the eating clubs to offer a vegetarian contract, which was slightly cheaper than the regular meal plan offered to members.

Academics and community service
Colonial has been committed to maintaining a rigorous scholarly community and providing professional opportunities to its members. The club's Professor Dinner Series allows members and guests to debate and discuss various topics with university professors, who are invited weekly to the club to discuss their research or engage in conversation. Furthermore, the club manages a student-run portfolio of over $100,000 in assets under management (AUM) and hosts its own in-house software development team.
Colonial Club has enjoyed a long-standing partnership with the Princeton-Blairstown Center, a program founded in 1908 by Princeton University students and faculty that attempts to transform the lives of young people through character-building experiences. The club holds an annual charity talent show in order to raise money for a variety of nonprofit organizations including HomeFront NJ. In addition, Colonial Club is noted for its enthusiasm towards influenza vaccines, leading all Princeton eating clubs in flu shots for H1N1, H5N1, and every major flu strain seen since 1975. This was sparked by Colonial's loss of 90% of its members to the 1918 flu pandemic.

Management
As with the past century, Colonial Club is managed by the Graduate Board of Governors, composed of graduate members of the club, and the Undergraduate Officers, who are elected each December. Colonial Club's executive chef, Gilberto Ramirez, has been in post for over 11 years. Ramirez graduated from the French Culinary Institute and previously worked at TPC Jasna Polana. The club is also directed by a club manager, Kathleen Galante, who oversees day-to-day affairs.
Colonial Club celebrated its 125th anniversary under graduate president Joseph Studholme '84, who has led the board since 2009, and undergraduate president Christopher J. Yu '17. Continuing its 1934 tradition of having formal member-alumni dinners, the club held its 125th Anniversary Celebration with a cruise dinner aboard the Atlantica Yacht on the New York Harbor.

Notable alumni
Pete Conrad '53, the third man to walk on the Moon, was a Colonial member. Conrad carried five Princeton flags to the Moon; he later gave one to the club. This memento was destroyed in a fire while it was being framed for display at Colonial's "Burn Baby Burn" Pyrotechnic extravaganza.
Other famous Colonial alumni include the late Rhode Island senator Claiborne Pell '40, famous for creation of Pell grants in 1973; novelist and two-time Pulitzer Prize winner Booth Tarkington, who was a member of the original "Ye Plug and Ulster," which became Colonial; Norman Thomas 1905, the chief Socialist in the United States and Socialist candidate in every presidential election from 1928 to 1948; noted Princeton illustrator William B. Pell 1898; Eric Schmidt '76, former CEO of Google; and Edward F. Cox '68, who married Tricia Nixon in the Rose Garden at the White House in 1971.
Texas Senator Ted Cruz is an alumnus of Colonial Club from the class of 1992.
Anne Holton, former Virginia Secretary of Education and the wife of U.S. Senator and 2016 Democratic vice presidential nominee Tim Kaine is an alumnus of Colonial Club from the class of 1980.

Historic photographs
See also
Cannon Club
Cap and Gown Club
Cloister Inn
Ivy Club
Princeton Charter Club
Terrace Club
Tiger Inn
Tower Club
University Cottage Club
Quadrangle Club

References
External links
Colonial Club of Princeton University, 100th Anniversary Book. Princeton, NJ: Colonial Club. 1992.
Colonial Club Website
Colonial History
The club occupies a large mansion on the north side of Prospect Avenue in Princeton, NJ.  The building is easily recognizable by its four large white columns fashioned in Colonial style. The current building has served as the clubhouse for Colonial since 1906. After originally occupying several locations farther away from campus, the current house was built during a time of strong rivalry between eating clubs, across the street from rival clubs Ivy and Cottage.

Colonial's first clubhouse was located on 306 Nassau Street and served as the club's residence for only one year. In 1892,  the club moved to a house on 186 Nassau Street fashioned in the period's cottage architecture, featuring a front facade in the Queen Anne style. The club subsequently moved to Prospect Avenue in 1897, taking over the old Ivy Club house and changing the exterior by adding decorative columns and enlarging the lower floor. This third clubhouse lasted 9 years until the current clubhouse was built, funded by the issuance of bonds to graduate members and alumni. The new clubhouse was designed by associated architects Robert W. Gibson and Francis G. Stewart of New York City.
The current clubhouse features a wide variety of facilities, including a large foyer, cloak room, dining hall, kitchen, library, home theatre, game and billiards room, taproom, computer cluster, offices, various study rooms, and over a dozen bedrooms. The club's undergraduate officers reside in the mansion's third floor.
Founded in 1891 under the presidency of H.P. 'Bert' Fisher '93, the club was formed by a group of 13 Princeton University juniors, who originally called themselves the "Plug and Ulster Club." The club's founders initially encountered opposition by the president of the college, Reverend Francis L. Patton, who opposed to the establishment of a boy's club adjacent to Evelyn College, Princeton's coordinate women's college. After agreeing to several provisions, Colonial Club was founded and situated itself in an old Virginian, three-story veranda house. The original section consisted of several notable students including Booth Tarkington, founder of the Princeton Triangle Club. The club later was formerly incorporated in 1896 as The Colonial Club of Princeton University.
After the sinking of the Lusitania, military training became the principal activity on campus. Only a few of the eating clubs remained open during this time. Colonial Club temporarily considered combining with Tiger Inn until the full membership of the various clubs returned to college after the war. Almost the entire 1917 section left college to enter various branches of service, and the entirety of the 1919 section was drafted, leading to the closing of the club. Several club members perished during World War I, including John G. Agar Jr. '14, Joseph M. Duff Jr. '12, Gordon C. Gregory '18, and Samuel F. Pogue '04. Colonial Club's 1920 section managed to revive the club after the war, under the guidance of W. Irving Harris '20 and Harvey S. Firestone Jr. '20, who later was chairman of the board of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company.
Surprisingly, Colonial Club enjoyed its biggest years in the thirties. The original 1933 section of thirty men was the largest that had ever entered the club up to that time, most of whom were students in the university's Politics Department. According to the Colonial Club 100th Anniversary Book, the most striking feature of the club proved to be the members' "bland unawareness of the significance of outside events in those days...few believed that the invasion of Manchuria or Hitler's rise to power carried a personal threat to us."

Colonial Club's tradition of having its formal club dinners in New York began in 1934 in an effort to bring together graduate and undergraduate members. The tradition has continued into the 21st century, with member and alumni dinners commonly held at the Princeton Club of New York.
In the 1940s, Colonial Club continued to hold its place as one of the "Big Five" socially prominent eating clubs, along with Ivy, Cottage, Cap & Gown, and Tiger Inn. At the time, 80% of the members came from private preparatory schools, largely in New York, Philadelphia, and Boston, with the primary campus activity being Triangle Club and crew. Membership dropped during World War II, with over 18 members ranging from the 1914 section to the 1941 section perishing in the conflict.
After the world war, however, Colonial's extravagant style and activities returned to the club's normal affairs. Nearly $15,000 (around $150,000 in 2016) was once spent to hire Lester Lanin's Orchestra, and parties reminiscent of those in the Roaring Twenties became a staple of club life. By the end of the 50s, many of the traditional social amenities of earlier eras began to fade; buffet style became fashionable in lieu of the club's traditional white tablecloths, linen napkins, and waiters.

In the 60s, the club experienced several changes. The clubhouse's third floor bedrooms, which long held the staff of waiters, were renovated into rooms for members. Variable section sizes and a drop in alumni financial support occasionally led to tough financial situations for the club. During this time, Colonial became the first of the clubs to go non-selective in 1969. This move, strongly encouraged by university officials, coincided with the club's admittance of female members. Unlike some of the other eating clubs including Ivy Club, which did not allow women until a lawsuit in 1991, Colonial permitted women to join once Princeton University began to admit women as undergraduates in the same year. The inclusion of women in the club's daily life noticeably led to more small parties and events around the clubhouse.
The club's financial difficulties gradually continued into the 70s and 80s, during which the club's Graduate Board of Governors considered closing the club. Efforts by several of the undergraduate officers, including president Jaime Isbester and vice president April Gilbert, kept the club afloat via a fundraising campaign that raised more than $650,000 (over $2 million in 2016). Graduate members including Jack Dorrance '41, then chairman of the Campbell Soup Company, single-handedly donated over $100,000 in the club's Centennial Campaign.
Interest in the club reached a low point in 1999 when only 26 members of the class of 2001 signed into Colonial. Aggressive event planning by the classes of 2000 and 2001, along with generous alumni support and an enthusiastic and dedicated class of 2002, brought the club back from the brink. This was at least the third time the club had been rescued from near-oblivion; 1982 and 1988 also had seen very low sign-in numbers. In 2010, however, Colonial managed to recruit only 13 members in the first round of sign-ins; this was a massive drop from the 87 first round sign-ins from the previous year. The club was still able to attract a substantial number of new members during the second round of sign-ins that same year. In 2011, a huge turnaround occurred when over 130 sophomores signed into the club, which was the largest number of sophomores to join any of the eating clubs.
Throughout this period, the club has seen both the size and demographics of each section shift drastically. Nonetheless, the openness of the club, as demonstrated in 1969, remained a hallmark of the club's culture and shaped the club into the next decade.
Continuing its established traditions originating from the Roaring Twenties, Colonial frequently hosts events for its members and guests including game nights, intramural sports, semiformals, and winter and spring house parties. The club also participates in events such as trivia night, club field days, bonfires, outdoor BBQs, and therapy dog study breaks.
As with other the eating clubs, Colonial has participated in the university's annual Lawnparties music festival, hosting artists such as Between Friends, Crash Adams, and Weston Estate in recent years. Traditions at Colonial include its annual medieval feast and thesis phrase, where members attempt to insert a humorous line into their Princeton University senior thesis.

Colonial's large, white columns are often seen illuminated by lights on Friday nights, when the club is open to students of Princeton University and other members of the Princeton community.
As an eating club, Colonial members often have breakfast, lunch, and dinner at the clubhouse daily, with brunch served on the weekends. The club's buffet-style meals often feature an open grill, smoothie station, and panini bar. Other popular options include the club's fresh oysters, BBQ ribs, udon, fish tacos, Korean short ribs, and pork buns. In the 1960s, Colonial was the second of the eating clubs to offer a vegetarian contract, which was slightly cheaper than the regular meal plan offered to members.
Colonial has been committed to maintaining a rigorous scholarly community and providing professional opportunities to its members. The club's Professor Dinner Series allows members and guests to debate and discuss various topics with university professors, who are invited weekly to the club to discuss their research or engage in conversation. Furthermore, the club manages a student-run portfolio of over $100,000 in assets under management (AUM) and hosts its own in-house software development team.
Colonial Club has enjoyed a long-standing partnership with the Princeton-Blairstown Center, a program founded in 1908 by Princeton University students and faculty that attempts to transform the lives of young people through character-building experiences. The club holds an annual charity talent show in order to raise money for a variety of nonprofit organizations including HomeFront NJ. In addition, Colonial Club is noted for its enthusiasm towards influenza vaccines, leading all Princeton eating clubs in flu shots for H1N1, H5N1, and every major flu strain seen since 1975. This was sparked by Colonial's loss of 90% of its members to the 1918 flu pandemic.
As with the past century, Colonial Club is managed by the Graduate Board of Governors, composed of graduate members of the club, and the Undergraduate Officers, who are elected each December. Colonial Club's executive chef, Gilberto Ramirez, has been in post for over 11 years. Ramirez graduated from the French Culinary Institute and previously worked at TPC Jasna Polana. The club is also directed by a club manager, Kathleen Galante, who oversees day-to-day affairs.
Colonial Club celebrated its 125th anniversary under graduate president Joseph Studholme '84, who has led the board since 2009, and undergraduate president Christopher J. Yu '17. Continuing its 1934 tradition of having formal member-alumni dinners, the club held its 125th Anniversary Celebration with a cruise dinner aboard the Atlantica Yacht on the New York Harbor.
Pete Conrad '53, the third man to walk on the Moon, was a Colonial member. Conrad carried five Princeton flags to the Moon; he later gave one to the club. This memento was destroyed in a fire while it was being framed for display at Colonial's "Burn Baby Burn" Pyrotechnic extravaganza.
Other famous Colonial alumni include the late Rhode Island senator Claiborne Pell '40, famous for creation of Pell grants in 1973; novelist and two-time Pulitzer Prize winner Booth Tarkington, who was a member of the original "Ye Plug and Ulster," which became Colonial; Norman Thomas 1905, the chief Socialist in the United States and Socialist candidate in every presidential election from 1928 to 1948; noted Princeton illustrator William B. Pell 1898; Eric Schmidt '76, former CEO of Google; and Edward F. Cox '68, who married Tricia Nixon in the Rose Garden at the White House in 1971.
Texas Senator Ted Cruz is an alumnus of Colonial Club from the class of 1992.
Anne Holton, former Virginia Secretary of Education and the wife of U.S. Senator and 2016 Democratic vice presidential nominee Tim Kaine is an alumnus of Colonial Club from the class of 1980.
Cannon Club
Cap and Gown Club
Cloister Inn
Ivy Club
Princeton Charter Club
Terrace Club
Tiger Inn
Tower Club
University Cottage Club
Quadrangle Club
Colonial Club of Princeton University, 100th Anniversary Book. Princeton, NJ: Colonial Club. 1992.
Colonial Club Website
Colonial HistoryThe Ivy Club, often simply Ivy, is the oldest eating club at Princeton University. It was founded in 1879 with Arthur Hawley Scribner as its first head.

Club culture
The club is described by F. Scott Fitzgerald in This Side of Paradise (1920) as "detached and breathlessly aristocratic".  A more recent account described Ivy as the "most patrician eating club at Princeton University" where members "eat at long tables covered with crisp white linens and set with 19th-century Sheffield silver candelabra, which are lighted even when daylight streams into the windows."

Membership
The club was one of the last to admit women, resisting the change until spring 1991 after a lawsuit had been brought against the Ivy Club, Tiger Inn, and Cottage Club by the Princeton student Sally Frank and her lawyer Nadine Taub. The members of each class are selected through the bicker process, a series of ten screening interviews, which are followed by discussions amongst the members as to whom of the remaining to admit.  Current undergraduate members host regular "Roundtable Dinners" featuring talks by faculty and alumni.

Clubhouse
The first clubhouse was Ivy Hall, a brownstone building on Mercer Street in Princeton that still stands.  It had been constructed by Richard Stockton Field in 1847 as the home for the Princeton Law School, a short-lived venture that lasted from 1847 to 1852.  From the time of its founding until its incorporation in 1883, the club was generally known as the "Ivy Hall Eating Club."
In 1883 the club purchased an empty lot on Prospect Avenue, which was a country dirt road at the time.  Ivy erected a shingle-style clubhouse in 1884 on what is today the site of Colonial Club.  The clubhouse was remodeled and extended in 1887–88.  Following Ivy's move to new quarters across Prospect Avenue some ten years later, its second clubhouse was used by Colonial before being sold and moved to Plainsboro Township, New Jersey.
Ivy's third and current clubhouse was designed in 1897 by the Philadelphia firm of Cope & Stewardson. In 2009, the club completed its most significant renovation to date. The expansion added a second wing to the facility, changing the club's original L-shaped layout to a U.  Designed by Demetri Porphyrios, the new wing includes a two-story Great Hall and a crypt to provide additional study space.

Notable alumni
The following is a list of some notable members of the Ivy Club:

Hobey Baker (1914) – World War I fighter pilot, member of the Hockey Hall of Fame and U.S. Hockey Hall of Fame
James A. Baker III (1952) – Chief of Staff for Ronald Reagan; Secretary of Treasury and Secretary of State for George H. W. Bush
Lem Billings (1939) – confidante and "first friend" of President John F. Kennedy who was Kennedy's freshman-year roommate at Princeton
Joshua B. Bolten (1976) – White House Chief of Staff and Office of Management and Budget director under George W. Bush
Philip Bobbitt (1971) – constitutional law scholar and author of The Shield of Achilles: War, Peace, and the Course of History
Lauren Bush-Lauren (2006) – fashion model and niece of George W. Bush
Joey Cheek (2011) – speed skater who won gold and silver medals in the 2006 Winter Olympics and co-founder and president of Team Darfur
Leonard S. Coleman, Jr. (1971) – president of the National League
Frank Deford (1962) – author and sports commentator
Richard B. Fisher – philanthropist and chairman of Morgan Stanley
Moira Forbes—president and publisher, ForbesWoman
Bill Ford (1979) – Ford Motor Company
Thomas F. Gibson – first political cartoonist of USA Today and Director of Communication under Ronald Reagan
John Marshall Harlan II (1920) – Associate Justice, United States Supreme Court
Frederick Hitz – Inspector General of the Central Intelligence Agency
Ellie Kemper (2002) - American actress, comedian, and writer
Arthur Krock – four-time Pulitzer Prize–winning journalist
A.B. Krongard (1953) – executive director of the CIA
Jim Leach (1964) – U.S. Congressman from Iowa and chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities
Blair Lee I (1880) – United States Senator from Maryland
Blair Lee III (1938) – Governor of Maryland
Michael Lewis (1982) – author of Moneyball and Liar's Poker
Breckinridge Long (1904) – U.S. diplomat in the administrations of Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Delano Roosevelt
Allan Marquand (1874) – logician whose Marquand diagram was a forerunner of the Karnaugh map
Richard King Mellon – financier, banker, and philanthropist who led the urban renewal of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
John Aristotle Phillips –  entrepreneur specializing in political campaigns who became famous for attempting to design a nuclear weapon while a student.
John Rawls (1931) – political philosopher, author of A Theory of Justice, originator of the concepts of original position and veil of ignorance
Laurance Rockefeller (1932) – venture capitalist, philanthropist and environmentalist
Randall Rothenberg (1978) – president and CEO of the Interactive Advertising Bureau
Saud bin Faisal bin Abdul Aziz (1964) – Saudi Arabian Foreign Minister
Arthur Hawley Scribner (1881) – first head of the eating club and president of publisher Charles Scribner's Sons
Booth Tarkington (1893) – Pulitzer Prize–winning novelist
Jim Thompson (1928) – OSS officer and Thai silk entrepreneur who famously and mysteriously disappeared in Malaysia in 1967
Terdema Ussery – president and CEO of the Dallas Mavericks professional basketball team
Rodman Wanamaker – arts patron, aviation pioneer, and founder of the Professional Golfers' Association of America (PGA)
Woodrow Wilson – U.S. President, 1913–1921 (Associate Graduate Member)
John Gilbert Winant – Governor of New Hampshire and U.S. Ambassador to the United Kingdom
Frank G. Wisner (1961) – public servant and diplomat who served as U.S. Ambassador to Zambia, Egypt, the Philippines, and India.
Jacob Candelaria-New Mexico state senator, first openly gay man elected to the New Mexico Legislature and civil rights attorney.

References
Rich, Frederic C. (1979). The First Hundred Years of The Ivy Club. Princeton, NJ: The Ivy Club. ISBN 0-934756-00-7.

External links
Official Ivy Club Website
History and culture of the clubs, at Princeton's official site.
Further information on the renovation from James Bradberry Architects website
At Ivy Club, A Trip Back to Elitism  from the New York Times
The club is described by F. Scott Fitzgerald in This Side of Paradise (1920) as "detached and breathlessly aristocratic".  A more recent account described Ivy as the "most patrician eating club at Princeton University" where members "eat at long tables covered with crisp white linens and set with 19th-century Sheffield silver candelabra, which are lighted even when daylight streams into the windows."
The club was one of the last to admit women, resisting the change until spring 1991 after a lawsuit had been brought against the Ivy Club, Tiger Inn, and Cottage Club by the Princeton student Sally Frank and her lawyer Nadine Taub. The members of each class are selected through the bicker process, a series of ten screening interviews, which are followed by discussions amongst the members as to whom of the remaining to admit.  Current undergraduate members host regular "Roundtable Dinners" featuring talks by faculty and alumni.
The first clubhouse was Ivy Hall, a brownstone building on Mercer Street in Princeton that still stands.  It had been constructed by Richard Stockton Field in 1847 as the home for the Princeton Law School, a short-lived venture that lasted from 1847 to 1852.  From the time of its founding until its incorporation in 1883, the club was generally known as the "Ivy Hall Eating Club."
In 1883 the club purchased an empty lot on Prospect Avenue, which was a country dirt road at the time.  Ivy erected a shingle-style clubhouse in 1884 on what is today the site of Colonial Club.  The clubhouse was remodeled and extended in 1887–88.  Following Ivy's move to new quarters across Prospect Avenue some ten years later, its second clubhouse was used by Colonial before being sold and moved to Plainsboro Township, New Jersey.
Ivy's third and current clubhouse was designed in 1897 by the Philadelphia firm of Cope & Stewardson. In 2009, the club completed its most significant renovation to date. The expansion added a second wing to the facility, changing the club's original L-shaped layout to a U.  Designed by Demetri Porphyrios, the new wing includes a two-story Great Hall and a crypt to provide additional study space.
The following is a list of some notable members of the Ivy Club:

Hobey Baker (1914) – World War I fighter pilot, member of the Hockey Hall of Fame and U.S. Hockey Hall of Fame
James A. Baker III (1952) – Chief of Staff for Ronald Reagan; Secretary of Treasury and Secretary of State for George H. W. Bush
Lem Billings (1939) – confidante and "first friend" of President John F. Kennedy who was Kennedy's freshman-year roommate at Princeton
Joshua B. Bolten (1976) – White House Chief of Staff and Office of Management and Budget director under George W. Bush
Philip Bobbitt (1971) – constitutional law scholar and author of The Shield of Achilles: War, Peace, and the Course of History
Lauren Bush-Lauren (2006) – fashion model and niece of George W. Bush
Joey Cheek (2011) – speed skater who won gold and silver medals in the 2006 Winter Olympics and co-founder and president of Team Darfur
Leonard S. Coleman, Jr. (1971) – president of the National League
Frank Deford (1962) – author and sports commentator
Richard B. Fisher – philanthropist and chairman of Morgan Stanley
Moira Forbes—president and publisher, ForbesWoman
Bill Ford (1979) – Ford Motor Company
Thomas F. Gibson – first political cartoonist of USA Today and Director of Communication under Ronald Reagan
John Marshall Harlan II (1920) – Associate Justice, United States Supreme Court
Frederick Hitz – Inspector General of the Central Intelligence Agency
Ellie Kemper (2002) - American actress, comedian, and writer
Arthur Krock – four-time Pulitzer Prize–winning journalist
A.B. Krongard (1953) – executive director of the CIA
Jim Leach (1964) – U.S. Congressman from Iowa and chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities
Blair Lee I (1880) – United States Senator from Maryland
Blair Lee III (1938) – Governor of Maryland
Michael Lewis (1982) – author of Moneyball and Liar's Poker
Breckinridge Long (1904) – U.S. diplomat in the administrations of Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Delano Roosevelt
Allan Marquand (1874) – logician whose Marquand diagram was a forerunner of the Karnaugh map
Richard King Mellon – financier, banker, and philanthropist who led the urban renewal of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
John Aristotle Phillips –  entrepreneur specializing in political campaigns who became famous for attempting to design a nuclear weapon while a student.
John Rawls (1931) – political philosopher, author of A Theory of Justice, originator of the concepts of original position and veil of ignorance
Laurance Rockefeller (1932) – venture capitalist, philanthropist and environmentalist
Randall Rothenberg (1978) – president and CEO of the Interactive Advertising Bureau
Saud bin Faisal bin Abdul Aziz (1964) – Saudi Arabian Foreign Minister
Arthur Hawley Scribner (1881) – first head of the eating club and president of publisher Charles Scribner's Sons
Booth Tarkington (1893) – Pulitzer Prize–winning novelist
Jim Thompson (1928) – OSS officer and Thai silk entrepreneur who famously and mysteriously disappeared in Malaysia in 1967
Terdema Ussery – president and CEO of the Dallas Mavericks professional basketball team
Rodman Wanamaker – arts patron, aviation pioneer, and founder of the Professional Golfers' Association of America (PGA)
Woodrow Wilson – U.S. President, 1913–1921 (Associate Graduate Member)
John Gilbert Winant – Governor of New Hampshire and U.S. Ambassador to the United Kingdom
Frank G. Wisner (1961) – public servant and diplomat who served as U.S. Ambassador to Zambia, Egypt, the Philippines, and India.
Jacob Candelaria-New Mexico state senator, first openly gay man elected to the New Mexico Legislature and civil rights attorney.
Rich, Frederic C. (1979). The First Hundred Years of The Ivy Club. Princeton, NJ: The Ivy Club. ISBN 0-934756-00-7.
Official Ivy Club Website
History and culture of the clubs, at Princeton's official site.
Further information on the renovation from James Bradberry Architects website
At Ivy Club, A Trip Back to Elitism  from the New York TimesThe University Cottage Club or simply Cottage Club is one of eleven current eating clubs at Princeton University, in Princeton, New Jersey, United States. It is one of the six bicker clubs, along with The Ivy Club, Tiger Inn, Cap and Gown Club, Cannon Club and Tower Club.

History
In 1884, a group of freshmen who called themselves "The Seven Wise Men of Grease" of the Class of 1888, chose to eat in a private room on the second floor of Dohm's Restaurant on Nassau Street across from the campus. In their sophomore year, the group moved up Nassau Street to a hotel on the corner of Railroad Avenue (now University Place) known as The University Hotel. In September of their junior year as they were joined by several other students, they found a small house immediately south of The University Hotel on Railroad Avenue (where Hamilton Hall now stands) owned by the college, known as "The University Cottage". A couple was hired to cook and serve their meals. Prior to their graduation in 1888, the group invited members from the sophomore class to join their new venue. In 1889, new members of this society adopted legal papers and agreed on the name "The University Cottage Club of Princeton."
In 1890, a lot on Prospect Avenue (upon which today's clubhouse stands) was purchased and a shingled Victorian clubhouse was built in 1892. The enrollment continued to grow and this structure was moved to Library Place when plans were made for a larger building. The current 2+1⁄2-story Georgian Revival clubhouse was designed by Charles Follen McKim of the New York architectural firm McKim, Mead and White in 1903 and built in 1906.
The library on the second floor is modeled on the fourteenth century library in Merton College, Oxford University. In the Dining Room, one such carving reads “Ubi Amici Ibidem Sunt Opes” (“Where there are friends there are riches”) which has become over the years a motto of the Club.
In 1979, Cottage Club was one of three all-male eating clubs sued by 1980 Princeton graduate Sally Frank for sex discrimination.  Ms. Frank prevailed in 1985.  Following the suit, the Club voted to admit women in early 1986. Cottage has historically been numbered among the "Big Four" eating clubs of Princeton University (the others are Ivy, Cap and Gown, and Tiger Inn).
Recent renovations have kept the club in first-class condition while preserving its historic beauty. Many young literary enthusiasts like to visit the library where F. Scott Fitzgerald began his novel This Side of Paradise.
On September 14, 1999, the Club was entered onto the New Jersey Register of Historic Places. On November 15, 1999, it was added to the National Register of Historic Places based on the architectural structure of the building, high degree of historic integrity, and significant cultural contributions to the community.

See also
National Register of Historic Places listings in Mercer County, New Jersey

References
External links
Homepage 
Pictures of the Clubhouse Interior and Exterior
In 1884, a group of freshmen who called themselves "The Seven Wise Men of Grease" of the Class of 1888, chose to eat in a private room on the second floor of Dohm's Restaurant on Nassau Street across from the campus. In their sophomore year, the group moved up Nassau Street to a hotel on the corner of Railroad Avenue (now University Place) known as The University Hotel. In September of their junior year as they were joined by several other students, they found a small house immediately south of The University Hotel on Railroad Avenue (where Hamilton Hall now stands) owned by the college, known as "The University Cottage". A couple was hired to cook and serve their meals. Prior to their graduation in 1888, the group invited members from the sophomore class to join their new venue. In 1889, new members of this society adopted legal papers and agreed on the name "The University Cottage Club of Princeton."
In 1890, a lot on Prospect Avenue (upon which today's clubhouse stands) was purchased and a shingled Victorian clubhouse was built in 1892. The enrollment continued to grow and this structure was moved to Library Place when plans were made for a larger building. The current 2+1⁄2-story Georgian Revival clubhouse was designed by Charles Follen McKim of the New York architectural firm McKim, Mead and White in 1903 and built in 1906.
The library on the second floor is modeled on the fourteenth century library in Merton College, Oxford University. In the Dining Room, one such carving reads “Ubi Amici Ibidem Sunt Opes” (“Where there are friends there are riches”) which has become over the years a motto of the Club.
In 1979, Cottage Club was one of three all-male eating clubs sued by 1980 Princeton graduate Sally Frank for sex discrimination.  Ms. Frank prevailed in 1985.  Following the suit, the Club voted to admit women in early 1986. Cottage has historically been numbered among the "Big Four" eating clubs of Princeton University (the others are Ivy, Cap and Gown, and Tiger Inn).
Recent renovations have kept the club in first-class condition while preserving its historic beauty. Many young literary enthusiasts like to visit the library where F. Scott Fitzgerald began his novel This Side of Paradise.
On September 14, 1999, the Club was entered onto the New Jersey Register of Historic Places. On November 15, 1999, it was added to the National Register of Historic Places based on the architectural structure of the building, high degree of historic integrity, and significant cultural contributions to the community.
National Register of Historic Places listings in Mercer County, New Jersey
Homepage 
Pictures of the Clubhouse Interior and ExteriorCap and Gown Club, founded in 1891, is an eating club at Princeton University, in Princeton, New Jersey, United States. Colloquially known as "Cap", the club is one of the "Big Four" eating clubs at Princeton (the others are The Ivy Club, University Cottage Club, and Tiger Inn). Members are selected through a selective process called bicker. Sometimes known as "the Illustrious Cap and Gown Club," it was the first of the currently selective eating clubs to accept women. Though personalities of eating clubs certainly change throughout the years, Cap and Gown is described in F. Scott Fitzgerald's This Side of Paradise as "anti-alcoholic, faintly religious and politically powerful."
Cap was the most bickered eating club in 2011, 2013, 2014, and 2015. It has been the most selective club since 2013, with 287 students bickering in Spring 2019, thirty-five percent of whom were offered membership.

History
Cap is located at 61 Prospect Avenue between Cloister Inn and the University Cottage Club. It is the only Princeton eating club to have stayed in the same geographic location for its entire existence. Three Cap clubhouses have occupied this location. The first was completed in 1892. In 1895 when the club outgrew this clubhouse, the structure was moved across the street, and William Ralph Emerson was commissioned to design the second clubhouse (completed in 1896). Ten years later, Cap was ready to expand again. The Emerson building was moved away, and Raleigh Gildersleeve designed the clubhouse that Cap still occupies today.  A major renovation and expansion of the clubhouse to increase the size of the clubhouse in step with its growing membership was completed in February 2011.
On December 9, 2020, the Cap and Gown Club Board of Trustees unanimously approved a new financial aid policy that provides a grant to every member of Princeton University financial aid, guaranteeing that no member on full financial aid pays any out-of-pocket costs for club membership.
Notable Cap and Gown alumni include Dean Cain '88, Brooke Shields '87, and Donald Rumsfeld '54. Neurosurgeon Wilder Penfield, who pioneered the concept of the brain homunculus, was also a member of Cap and Gown.

References
External links
Official Website
Cap is located at 61 Prospect Avenue between Cloister Inn and the University Cottage Club. It is the only Princeton eating club to have stayed in the same geographic location for its entire existence. Three Cap clubhouses have occupied this location. The first was completed in 1892. In 1895 when the club outgrew this clubhouse, the structure was moved across the street, and William Ralph Emerson was commissioned to design the second clubhouse (completed in 1896). Ten years later, Cap was ready to expand again. The Emerson building was moved away, and Raleigh Gildersleeve designed the clubhouse that Cap still occupies today.  A major renovation and expansion of the clubhouse to increase the size of the clubhouse in step with its growing membership was completed in February 2011.
On December 9, 2020, the Cap and Gown Club Board of Trustees unanimously approved a new financial aid policy that provides a grant to every member of Princeton University financial aid, guaranteeing that no member on full financial aid pays any out-of-pocket costs for club membership.
Notable Cap and Gown alumni include Dean Cain '88, Brooke Shields '87, and Donald Rumsfeld '54. Neurosurgeon Wilder Penfield, who pioneered the concept of the brain homunculus, was also a member of Cap and Gown.
Official WebsiteThe Princeton Charter Club is one of Princeton University's eleven active undergraduate eating clubs located on or near Prospect Avenue in Princeton, New Jersey, United States.

Club history
The Princeton Charter Club was organized in the fall of 1901 as Princeton's ninth eating club, with a Senior Section from the Class of 1902 and a Junior Section from the Class of 1903. The name Cloister was at first selected until it was discovered that Yale already had an institution of similar name. About that time the document known as the Charter for the College of New Jersey was found and presented to the university. Charter's current neighbor to the west, Cloister Inn, later took the discarded name.
A small building on Olden Street—known as the "Incubator" because several other clubs had started there while they waited for sufficient finances to buy or build a proper clubhouse—was leased and the furnishing paid for by subscriptions.
In the spring of 1903 the club purchased three lots and a house on Prospect Avenue which constitutes three-quarters of the present property. The house was redesigned and enlarged under the supervision of an undergraduate member David Adler of the 1904 Section, with the assistance of Professor Harris of the faculty. The funds for the purchase of this property and the alterations to this second clubhouse were raised by the sale of nineteen $1,000 mortgage bonds.
The "Adler Clubhouse" would house Charter Club for a decade, until the present "Third Clubhouse", designed by architectural firm Mellor & Meigs was completed in the fall of 1914. Additionally, Charter's real estate assets had grown. In early 1905, at least one adjacent lot was purchased. In the summer of 1905, a squash court was built behind the clubhouse. The expansion of the land holdings encouraged the membership and graduate section of Charter to build the Third Clubhouse, which was and is a far more imposing edifice than either the Adler Clubhouse or even the "Incubator". Today, Charter is widely regarded as having one of the finest clubhouses on "The Street."
After the United States entered World War I, Charter was temporarily closed due to reduced membership caused by widespread member enlistment in the armed forces. For a period of less than two years, between 1917 and 1919, the Charter clubhouse closed its doors, and Charter members left on campus received full membership privileges at Cottage Club. Charter lost seven members in the war, and their sacrifice is commemorated by a plaque located in the "Great Room."
Reopening in 1919, Charter quickly gained a reputation as a club personifying the era of the Roaring '20s, carving a niche for itself on campus in the inter-war years. World War II saw Charter closing along with all of its peer institutions, as members almost universally went off to fight abroad. Charter greatly expanded its membership after the war, but disaster struck closer to home in 1949 when a fire spread rapidly through much of the first and second floors causing heavy damage. A fire marshal summoned to the scene of the fire, on seeing the facade of Charter seemingly unaffected, declared famously, "I have never seen a building survive a fire like this, nothing is indestructible, but this place is damn near." Charter's membership has since often referred to it as "The Indestructible Charter Club," or simply "The Indestructible."
Charter was known throughout the 1950s and 1960s for its hard partying ways—Charter parties were only rivaled at the time by those at perennial animal house Cannon Club. It is suspected, but not known, that at least one Charter member rode with members of Cap and Gown Club in the so-called Great Train Robbery of '63, in which the "dinky" train running from Princeton Junction into Princeton was forced to make a dramatic emergency stop after a car was seen on the tracks, at which point ersatz cowboys rode up to the train on horseback and carried off their dates who had been arriving for the weekend.
The greatest era of the Eating Clubs was beginning to fade by the late 1960s, however, and looking to prop up stagnating membership figures, Charter announced that it would accept female members, over the objection of many members of the grad board, shortly after the university made the switch to coeducation. In 1977, Charter made the switch from bicker selectivity to sign-in openness in order to draw more members. The club remained financially stable throughout the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s, as six of its peers shut their doors permanently.
Throughout this tumultuous period, Charter never quite lost its carefree atmosphere and wild touch—best exemplified perhaps by the infamous Initiation Night of 1988. In 1988, Charter counted as members most of the Varsity Football Team, including many of the '89 section's officers. It was some of these gridiron heroes who allegedly planned the raucous celebration of the admission of the new sophomore section which led to 45 members sent to McCosh Infirmary or Princeton Medical Center for alcohol-related reasons. The Princeton Borough Police quickly rounded up the Charter officer corps, and criminal charges were brought against the president and social chair, who were convicted of serving alcohol to minors, fined $500, and sentenced to 30 days in jail. The sentences were later overturned by a Mercer County Court judge, and the two undergraduate officers received probation and were ordered to perform community service.  To prevent a similar occurrence, but also to commemorate forever this fateful night, Charter now conducts formal initiations a week after all the other eating clubs, and on what would otherwise be initiation night officially "goes dry." Initiation Night '88 is generally considered to be, along with the Section Party of 1930, one of Charter's most infamous moments.
In the fall of 2010, Charter announced major modifications to its membership admission system, creating a "weighted sign-in" system that gives preference to sophomores judged to be more enthusiastic about the club, based on their involvement in club activities and attendance at events open to sophomores."  In February 2011, operating under this new system, Charter was again the only sign in club to fill its sophomore section in the first round of sign-ins.

Notable alumni
David Adler (1904 Section), architect
Arthur Schmidt (1912 Section). Infantry officer and recipient of the Army Cross 
Edmund Wilson (1916 Section), literary critic
José Ferrer (1933 Section), actor and film director
Mason Andrews (1940 Section), physician
James Stewart (1932 Section), actor
Bowie Kuhn (1948 Section), former Major League Baseball Commissioner
Charles Fried (1956 Section), Harvard Law professor and former Solicitor General
Joel Rosenman (1963 Section), co-creator of the Woodstock Festival
Mitch Daniels (1971 Section), Governor of Indiana
Arthur Grant Duff (1977 Section), British diplomat
Joel Achenbach (1982 Section), writer
David Duchovny (1982 Section), actor
Phil Goldman (1986 Section), founder of WebTV
Jeffrey Ambroziak (1989 Section), cartographer, inventor, and attorney
Ken Simpler (1989 Section), Delaware State Treasurer, 2015 to 2019 
Jonathan Mayer (2008 Section),  American computer scientist and lawyer
Austin Williams (2018 Section), child actor

References
External links
Princeton Charter Club's Website
The Princeton Charter Club was organized in the fall of 1901 as Princeton's ninth eating club, with a Senior Section from the Class of 1902 and a Junior Section from the Class of 1903. The name Cloister was at first selected until it was discovered that Yale already had an institution of similar name. About that time the document known as the Charter for the College of New Jersey was found and presented to the university. Charter's current neighbor to the west, Cloister Inn, later took the discarded name.
A small building on Olden Street—known as the "Incubator" because several other clubs had started there while they waited for sufficient finances to buy or build a proper clubhouse—was leased and the furnishing paid for by subscriptions.
In the spring of 1903 the club purchased three lots and a house on Prospect Avenue which constitutes three-quarters of the present property. The house was redesigned and enlarged under the supervision of an undergraduate member David Adler of the 1904 Section, with the assistance of Professor Harris of the faculty. The funds for the purchase of this property and the alterations to this second clubhouse were raised by the sale of nineteen $1,000 mortgage bonds.
The "Adler Clubhouse" would house Charter Club for a decade, until the present "Third Clubhouse", designed by architectural firm Mellor & Meigs was completed in the fall of 1914. Additionally, Charter's real estate assets had grown. In early 1905, at least one adjacent lot was purchased. In the summer of 1905, a squash court was built behind the clubhouse. The expansion of the land holdings encouraged the membership and graduate section of Charter to build the Third Clubhouse, which was and is a far more imposing edifice than either the Adler Clubhouse or even the "Incubator". Today, Charter is widely regarded as having one of the finest clubhouses on "The Street."
After the United States entered World War I, Charter was temporarily closed due to reduced membership caused by widespread member enlistment in the armed forces. For a period of less than two years, between 1917 and 1919, the Charter clubhouse closed its doors, and Charter members left on campus received full membership privileges at Cottage Club. Charter lost seven members in the war, and their sacrifice is commemorated by a plaque located in the "Great Room."
Reopening in 1919, Charter quickly gained a reputation as a club personifying the era of the Roaring '20s, carving a niche for itself on campus in the inter-war years. World War II saw Charter closing along with all of its peer institutions, as members almost universally went off to fight abroad. Charter greatly expanded its membership after the war, but disaster struck closer to home in 1949 when a fire spread rapidly through much of the first and second floors causing heavy damage. A fire marshal summoned to the scene of the fire, on seeing the facade of Charter seemingly unaffected, declared famously, "I have never seen a building survive a fire like this, nothing is indestructible, but this place is damn near." Charter's membership has since often referred to it as "The Indestructible Charter Club," or simply "The Indestructible."
Charter was known throughout the 1950s and 1960s for its hard partying ways—Charter parties were only rivaled at the time by those at perennial animal house Cannon Club. It is suspected, but not known, that at least one Charter member rode with members of Cap and Gown Club in the so-called Great Train Robbery of '63, in which the "dinky" train running from Princeton Junction into Princeton was forced to make a dramatic emergency stop after a car was seen on the tracks, at which point ersatz cowboys rode up to the train on horseback and carried off their dates who had been arriving for the weekend.
The greatest era of the Eating Clubs was beginning to fade by the late 1960s, however, and looking to prop up stagnating membership figures, Charter announced that it would accept female members, over the objection of many members of the grad board, shortly after the university made the switch to coeducation. In 1977, Charter made the switch from bicker selectivity to sign-in openness in order to draw more members. The club remained financially stable throughout the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s, as six of its peers shut their doors permanently.
Throughout this tumultuous period, Charter never quite lost its carefree atmosphere and wild touch—best exemplified perhaps by the infamous Initiation Night of 1988. In 1988, Charter counted as members most of the Varsity Football Team, including many of the '89 section's officers. It was some of these gridiron heroes who allegedly planned the raucous celebration of the admission of the new sophomore section which led to 45 members sent to McCosh Infirmary or Princeton Medical Center for alcohol-related reasons. The Princeton Borough Police quickly rounded up the Charter officer corps, and criminal charges were brought against the president and social chair, who were convicted of serving alcohol to minors, fined $500, and sentenced to 30 days in jail. The sentences were later overturned by a Mercer County Court judge, and the two undergraduate officers received probation and were ordered to perform community service.  To prevent a similar occurrence, but also to commemorate forever this fateful night, Charter now conducts formal initiations a week after all the other eating clubs, and on what would otherwise be initiation night officially "goes dry." Initiation Night '88 is generally considered to be, along with the Section Party of 1930, one of Charter's most infamous moments.
In the fall of 2010, Charter announced major modifications to its membership admission system, creating a "weighted sign-in" system that gives preference to sophomores judged to be more enthusiastic about the club, based on their involvement in club activities and attendance at events open to sophomores."  In February 2011, operating under this new system, Charter was again the only sign in club to fill its sophomore section in the first round of sign-ins.
David Adler (1904 Section), architect
Arthur Schmidt (1912 Section). Infantry officer and recipient of the Army Cross 
Edmund Wilson (1916 Section), literary critic
José Ferrer (1933 Section), actor and film director
Mason Andrews (1940 Section), physician
James Stewart (1932 Section), actor
Bowie Kuhn (1948 Section), former Major League Baseball Commissioner
Charles Fried (1956 Section), Harvard Law professor and former Solicitor General
Joel Rosenman (1963 Section), co-creator of the Woodstock Festival
Mitch Daniels (1971 Section), Governor of Indiana
Arthur Grant Duff (1977 Section), British diplomat
Joel Achenbach (1982 Section), writer
David Duchovny (1982 Section), actor
Phil Goldman (1986 Section), founder of WebTV
Jeffrey Ambroziak (1989 Section), cartographer, inventor, and attorney
Ken Simpler (1989 Section), Delaware State Treasurer, 2015 to 2019 
Jonathan Mayer (2008 Section),  American computer scientist and lawyer
Austin Williams (2018 Section), child actor
Princeton Charter Club's WebsiteThe Princeton Quadrangle Club, often abbreviated to "Quad", is one of the eleven eating clubs at Princeton University that remain open.  Located at 33 Prospect Avenue, the club is currently "sign-in," meaning it permits any second-semester sophomore, junior or senior to join. The club's tradition of openness is demonstrated as far back as 1970,  when Quadrangle became one of the first coeducational eating clubs (Princeton University itself began admitting women in 1969, and the last eating clubs to include women did so in 1991).

History
The club was formed in 1896 in a house built on the south side of Prospect Avenue.  In its early years, it changed its location several times.  In 1901, it moved to the north side of "the Street," and in 1903 it moved back to the south side, where the Princeton Tower Club now stands.  In 1910 it moved to a house built in 1887 for James McCosh, the eleventh president of Princeton University.  In 1915, Quadrangle Club sold the McCosh house and built its own house, designed by Henry Milliken, Princeton Class of 1905 in a classic brick Georgian Revival structure.  The club has existed in this building since 1916.
F. Scott Fitzgerald described Quadrangle Club in This Side of Paradise as "Literary Quadrangle."  Fitzgerald later commented that he might have felt more comfortable in "Literary Quadrangle" with contemporaries such as John Peale Bishop, an American poet.
In 2016, Quad signed-in 115 new members, a 342% increase from the year before and more than any other sign-in eating club except for Terrace Club. The current Chairman of the Board is alumnus Dinesh Maneyapanda.

Musical tradition
With some funding from the Princeton Undergraduate Student Government, the Quadrangle Club has hosted to some of the biggest concerts on Princeton's campus, including Barenaked Ladies in 1993, Lifehouse in 2003, Maroon 5 in 2004, Rihanna in 2006, and T-Pain in 2013.  These concerts have been documented as having drawn more than half of the university's entire undergraduate population. Below is a listing of the groups that have performed at the club in recent years at the semiannual University-wide festival called "Lawnparties".
The club’s perspicacious interest in music also extends to identifying early musical talent and booking intimate club music evenings with future superstars. For example, in the late 1980s Blues Traveler played a party at Quadrangle before the release of their first album.

Notable alumni
Stephen Ailes '33 - United States Secretary of the Army 1964-1965
R. W. Apple, Jr. '57 - New York Times editor
Robert L. Belknap '51 - Russian literature scholar and dean of Columbia College
Jeff Bezos '86 - founder of Amazon.com
Eduardo Bhatia '86 - 15th President of the Senate of Puerto Rico
John Peale Bishop '17 - writer, poet
Kit Bond '60 - former U.S. senator and governor of Missouri
Ralph DeNunzio '56 - investment banker and chairman of the New York Stock Exchange
Fred E. Fox '39 - collector of Princeton traditions known as "Keeper of the Princetoniana"
Robert F. Goheen '40 - president of Princeton University and U.S. Ambassador to India
Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers '87 - US District Judge for the United States District Court for the Northern District of California
J. Robert Hillier '59 - Founder of Hillier Architecture (sold to RMJM in 2007)
David Huebner '82 - United States Ambassador to New Zealand and Samoa
Wentworth Miller '95 - Actor, model and screenwriter
Jerome Powell '75 - Chair of the Federal Reserve
Neil L. Rudenstine '56 - Former president of Harvard University.
George P. Shultz '42 - Former United States Secretary of Labor, Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of State, and president of Bechtel.
Adlai Stevenson '22 - governor of Illinois, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, and Democratic Party nominee for President in 1952 and 1956
Robert Venturi '47 - Architect (at Princeton: Wu Hall, Lewis Thomas Laboratory, Frist Campus Center)
Sir Gordon Wu '58 - Chairman of Hopewell Holdings

Notes
References
External links
Princeton Quadrangle Club undergraduate website
Princeton Quadrangle Club alumni website
The club was formed in 1896 in a house built on the south side of Prospect Avenue.  In its early years, it changed its location several times.  In 1901, it moved to the north side of "the Street," and in 1903 it moved back to the south side, where the Princeton Tower Club now stands.  In 1910 it moved to a house built in 1887 for James McCosh, the eleventh president of Princeton University.  In 1915, Quadrangle Club sold the McCosh house and built its own house, designed by Henry Milliken, Princeton Class of 1905 in a classic brick Georgian Revival structure.  The club has existed in this building since 1916.
F. Scott Fitzgerald described Quadrangle Club in This Side of Paradise as "Literary Quadrangle."  Fitzgerald later commented that he might have felt more comfortable in "Literary Quadrangle" with contemporaries such as John Peale Bishop, an American poet.
In 2016, Quad signed-in 115 new members, a 342% increase from the year before and more than any other sign-in eating club except for Terrace Club. The current Chairman of the Board is alumnus Dinesh Maneyapanda.
With some funding from the Princeton Undergraduate Student Government, the Quadrangle Club has hosted to some of the biggest concerts on Princeton's campus, including Barenaked Ladies in 1993, Lifehouse in 2003, Maroon 5 in 2004, Rihanna in 2006, and T-Pain in 2013.  These concerts have been documented as having drawn more than half of the university's entire undergraduate population. Below is a listing of the groups that have performed at the club in recent years at the semiannual University-wide festival called "Lawnparties".
The club’s perspicacious interest in music also extends to identifying early musical talent and booking intimate club music evenings with future superstars. For example, in the late 1980s Blues Traveler played a party at Quadrangle before the release of their first album.
Stephen Ailes '33 - United States Secretary of the Army 1964-1965
R. W. Apple, Jr. '57 - New York Times editor
Robert L. Belknap '51 - Russian literature scholar and dean of Columbia College
Jeff Bezos '86 - founder of Amazon.com
Eduardo Bhatia '86 - 15th President of the Senate of Puerto Rico
John Peale Bishop '17 - writer, poet
Kit Bond '60 - former U.S. senator and governor of Missouri
Ralph DeNunzio '56 - investment banker and chairman of the New York Stock Exchange
Fred E. Fox '39 - collector of Princeton traditions known as "Keeper of the Princetoniana"
Robert F. Goheen '40 - president of Princeton University and U.S. Ambassador to India
Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers '87 - US District Judge for the United States District Court for the Northern District of California
J. Robert Hillier '59 - Founder of Hillier Architecture (sold to RMJM in 2007)
David Huebner '82 - United States Ambassador to New Zealand and Samoa
Wentworth Miller '95 - Actor, model and screenwriter
Jerome Powell '75 - Chair of the Federal Reserve
Neil L. Rudenstine '56 - Former president of Harvard University.
George P. Shultz '42 - Former United States Secretary of Labor, Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of State, and president of Bechtel.
Adlai Stevenson '22 - governor of Illinois, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, and Democratic Party nominee for President in 1952 and 1956
Robert Venturi '47 - Architect (at Princeton: Wu Hall, Lewis Thomas Laboratory, Frist Campus Center)
Sir Gordon Wu '58 - Chairman of Hopewell Holdings
Princeton Quadrangle Club undergraduate website
Princeton Quadrangle Club alumni websiteCloister Inn is one of the undergraduate eating clubs at Princeton University in Princeton, New Jersey, United States.
Founded in 1912, Cloister occupies a neo-Gothic building on Prospect Avenue, between Cap and Gown Club and Charter Club. Cloister closed temporarily in 1972, becoming open to all Princeton alumni, before reopening as an undergraduate club in 1977.  The club is "sign-in", meaning that it selects its members from a lottery process rather than the bicker process used by several of the eating clubs. Cloister typically attracts an athletic crowd and its members often include a number of Olympians. The official motto of the club is “Where everybody knows your name”.

History
Cloister Inn was founded in 1912. The present building was constructed in 1924.
It was designed by architects R.H. Scannell and Charles Lewis Bowman  NRHP
Cloister received mention in Ian Caldwell and Dustin Thomason's 2004 bestselling novel The Rule of Four. Caldwell, a 1998 graduate of Princeton, was a member of Cloister.

Notable alumni
Business
Robert Briskman '54, co-founder of Sirius Satellite Radio and Technical Executive of Sirius XM Radio
Tad Smith '87, chief executive of Sotheby's

Literature and the arts
Craig Mazin '92, screenwriter and director 
Ian Caldwell '98, co-author of the bestselling novel The Rule of Four, which was set at Princeton and includes several scenes that take place at Cloister
Nicholas Confessore '98, political correspondent for The New York Times

Politics, government, and public affairs
Anne-Marie Slaughter '80, president and CEO of the New America Foundation and former director of policy planning for the U.S. State Department
Eliot Spitzer '81, former New York governor
Elena Kagan '81, United States Supreme Court justice
Nan Hayworth '81, former U.S. representative for New York's 19th congressional district
Chris Lu '88, United States Deputy Secretary of Labor
Nuala O'Connor '89, current president of the Center for Democracy and Technology and inaugural Chief Privacy Officer for the US Department of Homeland Security
Charles W. Yost '28, U.S. ambassador to Laos, Syria, Morocco, and U.S. ambassador to the United Nations

Sport
Frank Anger '61, member of the United States team in Fencing at the Summer Olympics in Tokyo in 1962
Derek Bouchard-Hall '92, former professional cyclist, competitor in the men's team pursuit in Cycling at the 2000 Summer Olympics, and current CEO and president of USA Cycling
Danika Holbrook '95, competitor for the United States in Rowing at the 2004 Summer Olympics - Women's quadruple sculls
Morgan Crooks '98, competitor for Canada in Rowing at the 2000 Summer Olympics
Chris Ahrens '98, gold medalist in the Men's Eights event in Rowing at the 2004 Summer Olympics
Thomas Herschmiller '01, silver medalist for Canada in Rowing at the 2004 Summer Olympics
Paul Teti '01, three-time member of the United States Olympic rowing team
Lia Pernell '03, competitor for the United States in Rowing at the 2008 Summer Olympics
Juan Pablo Valdivieso '04, two-time member of Peru's Olympic swimming team
Samuel Loch '06, Australian rower who competed in the 2008 Summer Olympics and 2012 Summer Olympics
Steven Coppola '06, bronze medalist for the United States in Rowing at the 2008 Summer Olympics - Men's eight
Caroline Lind '06, two-time Olympic gold medalist for the United States in Women's rowing
Genevra Stone '07, six-time winner of the women's championship singles event at Head of the Charles Regatta and competitor for the United States in Rowing at the 2012 Summer Olympics - Women's single sculls
Glenn Ochal '08, bronze medalist for the United States in Rowing at the 2012 Summer Olympics - Men's coxless four
Douglas Lennox-Silva '09, swimmer who represented Puerto Rico in the 2008 Summer Olympics
Grant Wentworth '09, record holder in open water swimming for the solo swim from Cape Cod to Nantucket
Sara Hendershot '10, representative of the United States in Rowing at the 2012 Summer Olympics
Robin Prendes '11, representative of the United States in Rowing at the 2012 Summer Olympics in the men's coxless four
Bryan Tay '12, Singapore's sole representative in men's Swimming at the 2008 Summer Olympics
Susie Scanlan '14, American epee fencer who won a bronze medal in the 2012 Summer Olympics
Nick Mead '17, gold medalist for the United States in Rowing at the 2024 Summer Olympics - Men's coxless four
Hadley Clayton ‘23, founding member of the Princeton Varsity Women’s Rugby Team.

References
External links
Homepage
Cloister Inn was founded in 1912. The present building was constructed in 1924.
It was designed by architects R.H. Scannell and Charles Lewis Bowman  NRHP
Cloister received mention in Ian Caldwell and Dustin Thomason's 2004 bestselling novel The Rule of Four. Caldwell, a 1998 graduate of Princeton, was a member of Cloister.
Robert Briskman '54, co-founder of Sirius Satellite Radio and Technical Executive of Sirius XM Radio
Tad Smith '87, chief executive of Sotheby's
Craig Mazin '92, screenwriter and director 
Ian Caldwell '98, co-author of the bestselling novel The Rule of Four, which was set at Princeton and includes several scenes that take place at Cloister
Nicholas Confessore '98, political correspondent for The New York Times
Anne-Marie Slaughter '80, president and CEO of the New America Foundation and former director of policy planning for the U.S. State Department
Eliot Spitzer '81, former New York governor
Elena Kagan '81, United States Supreme Court justice
Nan Hayworth '81, former U.S. representative for New York's 19th congressional district
Chris Lu '88, United States Deputy Secretary of Labor
Nuala O'Connor '89, current president of the Center for Democracy and Technology and inaugural Chief Privacy Officer for the US Department of Homeland Security
Charles W. Yost '28, U.S. ambassador to Laos, Syria, Morocco, and U.S. ambassador to the United Nations
Frank Anger '61, member of the United States team in Fencing at the Summer Olympics in Tokyo in 1962
Derek Bouchard-Hall '92, former professional cyclist, competitor in the men's team pursuit in Cycling at the 2000 Summer Olympics, and current CEO and president of USA Cycling
Danika Holbrook '95, competitor for the United States in Rowing at the 2004 Summer Olympics - Women's quadruple sculls
Morgan Crooks '98, competitor for Canada in Rowing at the 2000 Summer Olympics
Chris Ahrens '98, gold medalist in the Men's Eights event in Rowing at the 2004 Summer Olympics
Thomas Herschmiller '01, silver medalist for Canada in Rowing at the 2004 Summer Olympics
Paul Teti '01, three-time member of the United States Olympic rowing team
Lia Pernell '03, competitor for the United States in Rowing at the 2008 Summer Olympics
Juan Pablo Valdivieso '04, two-time member of Peru's Olympic swimming team
Samuel Loch '06, Australian rower who competed in the 2008 Summer Olympics and 2012 Summer Olympics
Steven Coppola '06, bronze medalist for the United States in Rowing at the 2008 Summer Olympics - Men's eight
Caroline Lind '06, two-time Olympic gold medalist for the United States in Women's rowing
Genevra Stone '07, six-time winner of the women's championship singles event at Head of the Charles Regatta and competitor for the United States in Rowing at the 2012 Summer Olympics - Women's single sculls
Glenn Ochal '08, bronze medalist for the United States in Rowing at the 2012 Summer Olympics - Men's coxless four
Douglas Lennox-Silva '09, swimmer who represented Puerto Rico in the 2008 Summer Olympics
Grant Wentworth '09, record holder in open water swimming for the solo swim from Cape Cod to Nantucket
Sara Hendershot '10, representative of the United States in Rowing at the 2012 Summer Olympics
Robin Prendes '11, representative of the United States in Rowing at the 2012 Summer Olympics in the men's coxless four
Bryan Tay '12, Singapore's sole representative in men's Swimming at the 2008 Summer Olympics
Susie Scanlan '14, American epee fencer who won a bronze medal in the 2012 Summer Olympics
Nick Mead '17, gold medalist for the United States in Rowing at the 2024 Summer Olympics - Men's coxless four
Hadley Clayton ‘23, founding member of the Princeton Varsity Women’s Rugby Team.
HomepageTiger Inn (or "T.I." as it is colloquially known) is one of the eleven active eating clubs at Princeton University in Princeton, New Jersey.  Tiger Inn  was founded in 1890 and is one of the "Big Four" eating clubs at Princeton (the others are The Ivy Club, University Cottage Club, and Cap and Gown Club), the four oldest and most prestigious on campus. Tiger Inn is the third oldest Princeton Eating Club. Its historic clubhouse is located at 48 Prospect Avenue, Princeton, New Jersey, near the Princeton University campus. 
Members of "T.I." also frequently refer to the club as "The Glorious Tiger Inn."

The Tiger Inn clubhouse
The Tiger Inn clubhouse is the oldest of the Princeton Eating Club houses. It is both architecturally distinct, built in the Tudor style, and historically notable. "The Clubhouse is designed in the timbered style of the 15th century and modeled especially after an old inn in Chelsea.".  The clubhouse was built in 1895 for an original club membership of 30 undergraduates. The clubhouse has been in continuous use since the facility first opened. The architect for the clubhouse's original plan was G Howard Chamberlain. According to The Tiger Inn's official history, "Princeton myth [also] credits [the original plans for the clubhouse] to Howard Crosby Butler, Class of 1892 (a [Charter] member of Tiger Inn and Princeton's first Professor of architectural history)." The clubhouse's central hall was filled with massive antique furniture presented to the club by Mrs. Thomas Harrison Garrett (the former Alice Dickerson Whitridge (1851–1920), "the widow of a Princeton trustee and mother of three of Princeton's most prominent graduates of the 1890s" Robert Garrett, John W. Garrett, and ???); these furnishings remain in use to this day. The funding for the original clubhouse, the land, and the club's other furnishings were provided by the club's membership, although all at the time recognized the extraordinary support and contributions of the Garrett family.
Renovations to the clubhouse have continued since it was built in 1895. During 1922–1923 a room was added to the left of the front door and the second floor was remodeled; the second floor alterations were never used for their intended purpose as members quickly converted the new portion of the second floor space to a card room. In the fall of 1926 the clubhouse was substantially improved; during the six weeks of these alterations club members were required to take their meals at the surrounding clubs. By 1928 the kitchen had been moved to the south of the building. The changes to the clubhouse from 1926 to 1928 were well timed as this coincided with an expansion of the membership. The financing of the renovations placed Tiger Inn on the firm financial footing it would need to survive the Great Depression.
The distinctive clubhouse has recently undergone renovations, improvements and enlargements as part of its “21st Century Expansion and Renovation Project,”   for which the commissioned architect was Connolly Architecture, Inc. The project was completed with the formal dedication of the new club facilities on the weekend of 11-11-11. Funded entirely by the club's alumni, the expanded facilities include a new dining hall and improvements to the spaces normally reserved for social events. The new facilities provide a more suitable building to serve the club's Active Membership, now up from 26 to over 150 in any given year, and club alumni exceeding 2000 in 2012. Fundraising for the completed project continues.

Membership
Tiger Inn is a selective club, meaning membership is awarded after successful completion of a process called bicker. During bicker, prospective members interact with current members who then convene to vote on whether the prospective members should "receive a bid," or be invited to join the club.
The club has designated its 26 original founding members as "Charter Members:"  at the time of the club's founding, these members were known within the Princeton University community as "The Sour Balls." The Active Membership is that portion of membership that uses the clubhouse on a daily basis and is composed principally of Princeton undergraduates, although graduate students have also been active members from time to time. Alumni Members frequently return to the Tiger Inn. The club also has two honorific categories of membership to recognize and honor those who have had a positive and notable association with the club, whether as members of the Princeton University community or as individuals whose principal affiliation with the Princeton community is their association with the Tiger Inn.
Tiger Inn's membership was once described by F. Scott Fitzgerald in This Side of Paradise (1920) as "broad-shouldered and athletic, vitalized by an honest elaboration of prep-school standards."  In a 1927 essay on Princeton for the magazine College Humor, Fitzgerald elaborated: "Tiger Inn cultivates a bluff simplicity. Its membership is largely athletic and while it pretends to disdain social qualifications it has a sharp exclusiveness of its own."
Fitzgerald's comments were written during his time at Princeton University, when the membership of each of the Eating Clubs was male only. Women were not accepted as undergraduates at Princeton until 1969. Debate over co-ed Eating Club membership abounded from 1969 until 1991. In 1979, undergraduate Sally Frank filed suit against then all-male clubs Ivy Club, Cottage Club, and Tiger Inn for gender discrimination. While Cottage chose to coeducate during the intervening years, Ivy Club and Tiger Inn were forced to become co-ed organizations in 1991, after their appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court regarding Frank's lawsuit was denied. The New Jersey Supreme Court had ruled in Frank v. Ivy Club that the failure to open membership to women violated the state's anti-discrimination statute.
In modern times, the membership of The Tiger Inn is distinctly coed, and the club's membership and leadership, including members of both its Graduate Council and the undergraduate officers have included many notable Princeton alumnae and female students, respectively. In 2015 Grace Larsen was elected as the club's first female president. That same year Maria Yu was elected as treasurer, and Victoria Hammarskjold was elected as communication chair, thus making it the first time the club's undergraduate officers were gender-balanced, with three women and three men.
The full membership of the club, including all living alumni, have met four times to commemorate anniversaries of Tiger Inn. The highlight of the club's fiftieth anniversary celebration was the publication of the club's first official history, written by Charlie Mulduar and released in March 1940, just before America's involvement in World War II. The club's seventy-fifth anniversary was held on December 9, 1965, at the Hotel Roosevelt in New York.  The celebrations for the 100th anniversary of the club began in 1988 with a small informal meeting of 40 alumni at the Princeton Club of New York who began to plan the centennial celebrations. The centennial celebrations peaked with the club's Hundredth Anniversary Dinner held on October 20, 1990, at the Hyatt in Princeton, following which many of the alumni insisted on continuing celebrations at the clubhouse. The centennial celebrations were concluded by the subsequent publication of the second club history entitled The Tiger Inn of Princeton, New Jersey, 1890–1997. In February, 2016 The Tiger Inn marked its 125th anniversary with a dinner held at the Westin in Princeton, followed by continued celebrations at the clubhouse.

Notable contributions to sport
Olympic athletes
Tiger Inn members acted to form the first American Olympics team for the first modern Olympic games in Athens in 1896. Most of the first American Olympic team came from Princeton, Harvard University and the Boston Athletic Association. Four Princetonians, including three Tiger Inn members, participated in those games. The TI members earned six medals in total: two gold, three silver medals, and one bronze; the four Princetonians earned 7 medals in total. The three TI members were Robert Garrett, Herb Jamison and Frank Lane; they were joined by Princetonian Al Tyler, who also medalled. These four Princeton athletes' 7 medals helped the 1896 American Olympic team earn 20 medals in total. Team Member Garrett delivered the most unexpected upset of the 1896 Games when he won Gold in the Discus, outperforming his Greek rival to win the most symbolic sport carried over from the ancient Olympics to the modern Olympic games.
TI members continued to participate in the Olympics after the 1896 Athens games.  Garrett returned to the Olympics for the 1900 Paris games where he won two bronze medals. He was joined in the Paris games by John Cregan who won a silver medal in the 800 meters. John DeWitt competed in the 1904 St. Louis games; he was joined there by A. M. Woods, who earned a silver medal. 
Pete Raymond rowed in both the 1968 Mexico City and 1972 Munich games; he earned a silver medal in Munich.
Most recently, in 2024, current TI member Maia Mei Weintraub competed in the Women's Team Foil Fencing event for Team USA, where she carried her team to Olympic Gold. The victory marked the first time that the United States has taken gold in a team fencing event.
Tiger Inn members have earned more than 12 Olympic medals. Garrett's lifetime record of 6 Olympic medals among Princeton athletes continues to stand.

American football
Tiger Inn members have been both Princeton football players, and professional football players. The College Football Hall of Fame lists many TI members in its ranks.
Tiger Inn alumni have returned to Princeton to serve as Head Coaches of Princeton's football program.  As college football head coaches, Tiger Inn alumni through the class of 1900 compiled composite career coaching records of 175-31-5. They coached Princeton to at least one national championship. TI members who served as Princeton Football Head Coach include Garrett Cochran, Arthur Hillebrand and Robert Casciola. TI Members have also served as Head Coaches of Football at Annapolis, Berkeley, Bowdoin,  Georgetown,  and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, among other colleges.
Charlie Gogolak and Cosmo Iacavazzi are two prominent TI members who became professional football players.

Other American collegiate sports
Through the club's history Tiger Inn members have also featured prominently in other collegiate sports in which Princeton competes.
In 2012 the Princeton men's squash team won the National Collegiate Championship powered by the performances of three Tiger Inn members.

Notable community contributions
Academia
Tiger Inn's sole winner of a Nobel Prize, thus far, is economist Michael Spence, the winner of the 2001 Nobel Prize in Economics together with George Akerlof and Joseph Stiglitz. During his illustrious career Spence has served as dean of the Stanford Graduate School of Business and is presently chairman of the Commission for Growth and Development.
Princeton University's School of Architecture was founded in 1919 through the efforts of Tiger Inn Charter Member Howard Clark Butler and his fellow faculty members. He became the School of Architecture's director in 1920. Professor Butler was only the second Princeton Professor to offer a course related to architecture, following the precedent set by Princeton Professor Marquand.
In addition to Spence, Tiger Inn has produced well over 100 members of Phi Beta Kappa. Its members have earned at least three Rhodes, and two Marshall, Scholarships.  TI members serve as research scientists at the Bell Labs and NASA and in the research or "Think Tank" roles of such commercial organizations as international financial institutions and the BIG 4 accounting firms, among other organizations.
Tiger Inn alumni have served many universities, including Princeton, as faculty members and as non-faculty instructors and administrators. Spence has served Harvard University, New York University and Stanford University. Butler served Princeton as did noted philologist W K. Prentice. Chauncey Loomis was a Dartmouth professor, and from there, led 5 Arctic expeditions.  James Harland was a professor of classics at University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. John Fine joined the Princeton faculty in 1940 from Yale as a professor of Classics  and retired in 1972. Richard H Williams is a professor of history at Southern Methodist University. Samuel Armistead is a professor of Spanish language and literature at UC Davis.
Sean Smith is a professor of computer science at Dartmouth. Joseph Haid is a professor at Wisconsin Polytechnique Institute.
Will Garwood continues to serve Princeton as vice chairman of advisory board to the James Madison Program  On June 12, 2012, Robert J Hugin was elected a Charter Trustee of Princeton University

Cultural contributions
Tiger Inn's members have been active in literature and the arts. Jesse Williams won the first Pulitzer Prize in Drama. Frank Taplin was president of the Metropolitan Opera in New York, the Cleveland Orchestra, and the Cleveland Institute of Music. Thomas Hoving was the director of New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art. And Barry S Friedberg is the chairman emeritus of the New York City Ballet.
Jesse Williams, the author of Why Marry?, has been joined by several other Tiger Inn members as accomplished authors. William Edwards' book Football Days remains the definitive account of American Football in the 19th century. Classics Professor John Fine wrote several books, including The Ancient Greeks: A Critical History. Samuel Armistead wrote Spanish Tradition in Louisiana, which remains the definitive study on the use of the Spanish language in that state. H K Twichell wrote Regeneration in the Ruhr: The Unknown Story of a Decisive Answer to Communism in Postwar Europe.  Henry Owsley is co-author of the leading book in his field, Distressed Investment Banking: To the Abyss and Back.
Chauncey Loomis remains Tiger Inn's only Arctic explorer.

Military
Several members of the Tiger Inn have served the United States as uniformed officers of its Armed Forces. TI was founded just over 20 years after the end of the Civil War. TI members have served in the Spanish–American War, World War I, World War II, the Korean war, the Vietnam war, Desert Storm and the more recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, among other armed conflicts.
TI Members who served in World War I include Brigadier General Coulter, Medal of Honor recipient Gordon Johnston, and decorated World War I Flying Ace, "Ace" Vaughn.
Tiger Inn lists well over 30 members who gave their lives in the service of their country. The memory of many of these TI alums are honored through their portraits kept at the clubhouse, mainly in the upstairs Library.

Elected and appointed offices
TI members have also served their communities through various positions at the Federal, State and local levels. Tiger Inn members have served as United States Senator and United States Ambassador at the federal level, Speaker of the House in New Jersey at the state level, and Deputy Mayor of New York City at the local level. Senator John Danforth ranks as the senior-most elected politician as an Active Member of the club while a Princeton undergraduate.  United States President Grover Cleveland accepted an Honorary Membership in Tiger Inn, making him the senior-most elected politician to have joined the club in this membership category.
TI alum Louis Le Guyader is among the first candidates ever to run for the new elective office of DEPUTE to the French National Assembly from his home in New York - his new electoral district was created under a change to the French Constitution in 2008 and is meant to represent French Citizens living in the United States and Canada. As such he is the first TI member ever to seek elective office abroad.

Commerce
Arthur M Wood  was chairman and C.E.O. of Sears  and credited with its turnaround in the 1960s.  He was also responsible for the building of Sears Tower in Chicago, whose last steel beam bears his signature. George H Love led the reorganizations and turnarounds at two major corporations, the Consolidation Coal Company and The Chrysler Corporation, where he was chairman. Barry S Friedberg served as head of investment banking at Merrill Lynch, before its merger with Bank of America; under his leadership Merrill climbed to the top of the industry league tables in every category he managed.
Rudolph J. Schaefer ran his family's highly acclaimed Brooklyn brewery, the F & M Schaefer Brewing Company of Brooklyn, New York. His product, Schaefer Beer, was the world's best selling beer until the mid-1970s.
Robert Hugin is chairman and president of Celgene, the New Jersey pharmaceutical company. Michael Novogratz is president of the Fortress Investment Group
N.J. Nicholas Jr was president of HBO in its earliest days, president of Time Inc in 1986 and co-ceo of Time Warner in 1990. He served the GHW Bush administration on the PCEQ (presidential commission on environmental quality) and on the advisory board to the US Trade Representative. After retiring from Time Warner in 1992, he served for 15 years as a trustee of Environmental Defense Fund, including seven years as board chair.  He also served as advisory board chair of the Columbia School of Journalism.

Controversies
In 2014, two club officers were removed from their positions after sending emails ridiculing women. One of the emails included a sexually explicit photograph showing a woman, denoted as an Asian chick, engaged in a sexual act. In the other email the club's treasurer wrote about the alumna whose lawsuit forced the club to admit women: “Ever wonder who we have to thank (blame) for gender equality. Looking for someone to blame for the influx of girls? Come tomorrow and help boo Sally Frank.”

Notable members
Gerardo "Gerry" Angulo - publisher of the only English-language daily newspaper in Puerto Rico, The San Juan Star 
Samuel G. Armistead - Professor Emeritus of Spanish Language and History, UC Davis.
James T. Aubrey - television and film executive
Ralph Bard - Under Secretary of the Navy and Assistant Secretary of the Navy during World War II, Roosevelt Administration
Dan M. Berkovitz - General Counsel of the CFTC, Obama Administration 
Walter C. Booth - known as "Bummy," an American football coach serving as the head football coach at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln (the Huskers), compiling a career record of 46-8-1.
R. Manning Brown Jr. - former chairman of the board of New York Life Insurance Co. and former chairman of Princeton University's Board of Trustees 
Howard Crosby Butler - Charter Member, one of the founders of Princeton's School of Architecture, and its director from 1920 
Robert Casciola - head football coach at Princeton from 1973 to 1977.
Grover Cleveland - Honorary Member, President of the United States.
Garrett Cochran -  head football coach at the University of California, Berkeley (1898–99), the United States Naval Academy (1900) and Princeton (1902), with a career coaching record of 29–5–3.
Richard Coulter Jr. - Charter Member, Brigadier General in the U.S. Army in WWI; professional football player
John F. Cregan - Olympic athlete; participated in the 1900 Olympic games earning a silver medal 
John Danforth - former United States Senator, Missouri; ordained priest in the Episcopal Church 
John R. DeWitt - Olympic athlete, St Louis Games of 1904; College Football Hall of Fame  
Selden Edwards - best-selling novelist, author of The Little Book and The Lost Prince, educator, and secretary of the Princeton class of '63
William Hanford Edwards - author of Football Days, the definitive work on American Football in the 19th century; famous for saving the life of N.Y. Mayor William Gaynor by tackling his assailant.
Max Farrand - Charter Member, professor, first director of the Huntington Library, past president of the American Historical Society
John V. A. Fine - Classics Professor at Princeton, noted author in Greek history
Barry S. Friedberg - former Executive Vice President of Merrill Lynch, and Head of Investment Banking, Chairman Emeritus of the New York City Ballet 
Robert Garrett - the first modern Olympic champion in the discus; organized the 4 Princetonians who competed in the 1896 Athens games; won two golds and two silvers in Athens, 1896, and two bronzes in Paris, 1900.
Will Garwood - President of Cypress Asset Management and, at Princeton, vice chairman of the advisory board of the James Madison Program.
Charlie Gogolak - football placekicker noted for his innovations; initially with the Washington Redskins and then the New England Patriots
Hy Gunning - Associate Member, played professional baseball with the Boston Red Sox; he was noted for batting left-handed and throwing right-handed.
J. P. Harland - Professor of Classics, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
John Grier Hibben - honorary member; president of Princeton, 1920–32; he opposed President Wilson's plans to replace the Eating Clubs with a system of residential quadrangles.
Arthur Hillebrand - head football coach at Princeton, 1903–05, his record was 27–4 and the team out-scored opponents 669–85; the 1903 team was 11–0 and was national champion.
Thomas Hoving – former director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art
Robert J. Hugin - chairman and President of Celgene, Inc.; elected Charter Trustee of Princeton in June 2012.
Cosmo Iacavazzi - professional football player, a member of the New York Jets; inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
Herbert Jamison - member of the first U.S. Olympic Team at the first modern Olympic games in Athens, where he won a silver medal.
Gordon Johnston -  Colonel, U.S. Army, recipient of the Medal of Honor, the highest military award of the U.S.A.; head coach of the University of North Carolina (the Tar Heels) football team in 1896.
Philip King - American football player, notable as a college football coach, especially at Georgetown University, compiling a career record of 73-14-1.
Howard Krongard - known as "Cookie;"  head of the Office of the inspector general of the Department of State; Bush "43" Administration.
Frank A. Lane - member of the first U.S. Olympic Team in Athens, 1896; technically, the first American to compete in the modern Olympiad; bronze medal winner 
Louis Le Guyader - the first TI member to seek elective office outside the United States in a campaign to serve as a Depute in the French National Assembly in 2012 
Chauncey C. Loomis - famous Arctic explorer who led 5 expeditions to the Arctic, and Dartmouth professor.
Donald Lourie - Under Secretary of State for Administration, Eisenhower Administration; declined a pro football career with the Cleveland Browns.
Roscoe Parke McClave - Head Football Coach, Bowdoin College; twice Speaker of the House, General Assembly of New Jersey.
Albert G. Milbank - founding partner of the law firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy
Joshua Miller - founder of Resilient Youth Foundation as a teen; founder of startup atroundtable.com which is being referred to as "the next facebook for internet conversations among experts" 
Roland S. Morris - American Ambassador to Japan, 1917–20.
N. J. Nicholas Jr - President of HBO in its earliest days, President of Time Inc in 1986 and co-ceo of Time Warner in 1990
Michael Novogratz – president of the Fortress Investment Group
Henry Furlow Owsley III - Wall Street financier, noted as co-author of the leading book in his field, Distressed Investment Banking: To the Abyss and Back  and in 2014, "Equity Holders Under Siege: Strategies and Tactics for Distressed Businesses," Beard Books LLC
W. K. Prentice - Princeton Professor, noted philologist.
Marc Rayman - Project Manager of Deep Space 1, NASA 
Pete Raymond - two time Olympic oarsman, won the silver medal in Munich in 1972; "a god among men."
Wayne Rogers - actor, "Trapper McIntyre" for three seasons on "M.A.S.H."
Rudolf J. Schaefer - yachtsman and brewer, ran the F & M Schaefer Brewing Company of Brooklyn, New York.
Mawell "Max" Shaw - founder of Shawskaboy inc. and the Face Morpher and Pro Interval Timer iPhone Apps.
Michael Spence - a Nobel Prize winner in Economics; Rhodes Scholar; former dean of the Stanford Graduate School of Business.
Robert "Huck" Alston Stevenson - Charter Member, second headmaster of the Allen-Stevenson School the private elementary school in New York City, founded by his father 
Frank E Taplin Jr. - a Rhodes Scholar; president of the Metropolitan Opera 
H. K. Twitchell - Executive director of Moral Re-Armament, an international religious movement founded in 1938 in London, where it was founded to reshape the world through absolute morality; author of "Regeneration in the Ruhr: The Unknown Story of a Decisive Answer to Communism in Postwar Europe," Princeton University Press
George Augustus Vaughn, Jr. - known as "Ace,"  a  World War I Flying Ace: officially credited with downing 12 enemy planes and one balloon
Jesse Lynch Williams - Charter Member, prize winning author and dramatist, won the first Pulitzer Prize in drama in 1918 for the play Why Marry?
A. M. Woods - lacrosse player and Olympic Athlete, 1904 games, where he earned a silver medal.
John E. Zuccotti - former First Deputy Mayor of New York City
Zack Wall - actor, "The Village" (2004), "The Great New Wonderful" (2005), "Coda" (2014), and "SnapChat Guy" (2016).

References
External links
Official Tiger Inn Website
History and culture of the clubs, at Princeton's official site.
History of the Tiger Inn building Archived 2008-01-24 at the Wayback Machine
The Tiger Inn clubhouse is the oldest of the Princeton Eating Club houses. It is both architecturally distinct, built in the Tudor style, and historically notable. "The Clubhouse is designed in the timbered style of the 15th century and modeled especially after an old inn in Chelsea.".  The clubhouse was built in 1895 for an original club membership of 30 undergraduates. The clubhouse has been in continuous use since the facility first opened. The architect for the clubhouse's original plan was G Howard Chamberlain. According to The Tiger Inn's official history, "Princeton myth [also] credits [the original plans for the clubhouse] to Howard Crosby Butler, Class of 1892 (a [Charter] member of Tiger Inn and Princeton's first Professor of architectural history)." The clubhouse's central hall was filled with massive antique furniture presented to the club by Mrs. Thomas Harrison Garrett (the former Alice Dickerson Whitridge (1851–1920), "the widow of a Princeton trustee and mother of three of Princeton's most prominent graduates of the 1890s" Robert Garrett, John W. Garrett, and ???); these furnishings remain in use to this day. The funding for the original clubhouse, the land, and the club's other furnishings were provided by the club's membership, although all at the time recognized the extraordinary support and contributions of the Garrett family.
Renovations to the clubhouse have continued since it was built in 1895. During 1922–1923 a room was added to the left of the front door and the second floor was remodeled; the second floor alterations were never used for their intended purpose as members quickly converted the new portion of the second floor space to a card room. In the fall of 1926 the clubhouse was substantially improved; during the six weeks of these alterations club members were required to take their meals at the surrounding clubs. By 1928 the kitchen had been moved to the south of the building. The changes to the clubhouse from 1926 to 1928 were well timed as this coincided with an expansion of the membership. The financing of the renovations placed Tiger Inn on the firm financial footing it would need to survive the Great Depression.
The distinctive clubhouse has recently undergone renovations, improvements and enlargements as part of its “21st Century Expansion and Renovation Project,”   for which the commissioned architect was Connolly Architecture, Inc. The project was completed with the formal dedication of the new club facilities on the weekend of 11-11-11. Funded entirely by the club's alumni, the expanded facilities include a new dining hall and improvements to the spaces normally reserved for social events. The new facilities provide a more suitable building to serve the club's Active Membership, now up from 26 to over 150 in any given year, and club alumni exceeding 2000 in 2012. Fundraising for the completed project continues.
Tiger Inn is a selective club, meaning membership is awarded after successful completion of a process called bicker. During bicker, prospective members interact with current members who then convene to vote on whether the prospective members should "receive a bid," or be invited to join the club.
The club has designated its 26 original founding members as "Charter Members:"  at the time of the club's founding, these members were known within the Princeton University community as "The Sour Balls." The Active Membership is that portion of membership that uses the clubhouse on a daily basis and is composed principally of Princeton undergraduates, although graduate students have also been active members from time to time. Alumni Members frequently return to the Tiger Inn. The club also has two honorific categories of membership to recognize and honor those who have had a positive and notable association with the club, whether as members of the Princeton University community or as individuals whose principal affiliation with the Princeton community is their association with the Tiger Inn.
Tiger Inn's membership was once described by F. Scott Fitzgerald in This Side of Paradise (1920) as "broad-shouldered and athletic, vitalized by an honest elaboration of prep-school standards."  In a 1927 essay on Princeton for the magazine College Humor, Fitzgerald elaborated: "Tiger Inn cultivates a bluff simplicity. Its membership is largely athletic and while it pretends to disdain social qualifications it has a sharp exclusiveness of its own."
Fitzgerald's comments were written during his time at Princeton University, when the membership of each of the Eating Clubs was male only. Women were not accepted as undergraduates at Princeton until 1969. Debate over co-ed Eating Club membership abounded from 1969 until 1991. In 1979, undergraduate Sally Frank filed suit against then all-male clubs Ivy Club, Cottage Club, and Tiger Inn for gender discrimination. While Cottage chose to coeducate during the intervening years, Ivy Club and Tiger Inn were forced to become co-ed organizations in 1991, after their appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court regarding Frank's lawsuit was denied. The New Jersey Supreme Court had ruled in Frank v. Ivy Club that the failure to open membership to women violated the state's anti-discrimination statute.
In modern times, the membership of The Tiger Inn is distinctly coed, and the club's membership and leadership, including members of both its Graduate Council and the undergraduate officers have included many notable Princeton alumnae and female students, respectively. In 2015 Grace Larsen was elected as the club's first female president. That same year Maria Yu was elected as treasurer, and Victoria Hammarskjold was elected as communication chair, thus making it the first time the club's undergraduate officers were gender-balanced, with three women and three men.
The full membership of the club, including all living alumni, have met four times to commemorate anniversaries of Tiger Inn. The highlight of the club's fiftieth anniversary celebration was the publication of the club's first official history, written by Charlie Mulduar and released in March 1940, just before America's involvement in World War II. The club's seventy-fifth anniversary was held on December 9, 1965, at the Hotel Roosevelt in New York.  The celebrations for the 100th anniversary of the club began in 1988 with a small informal meeting of 40 alumni at the Princeton Club of New York who began to plan the centennial celebrations. The centennial celebrations peaked with the club's Hundredth Anniversary Dinner held on October 20, 1990, at the Hyatt in Princeton, following which many of the alumni insisted on continuing celebrations at the clubhouse. The centennial celebrations were concluded by the subsequent publication of the second club history entitled The Tiger Inn of Princeton, New Jersey, 1890–1997. In February, 2016 The Tiger Inn marked its 125th anniversary with a dinner held at the Westin in Princeton, followed by continued celebrations at the clubhouse.
Tiger Inn members acted to form the first American Olympics team for the first modern Olympic games in Athens in 1896. Most of the first American Olympic team came from Princeton, Harvard University and the Boston Athletic Association. Four Princetonians, including three Tiger Inn members, participated in those games. The TI members earned six medals in total: two gold, three silver medals, and one bronze; the four Princetonians earned 7 medals in total. The three TI members were Robert Garrett, Herb Jamison and Frank Lane; they were joined by Princetonian Al Tyler, who also medalled. These four Princeton athletes' 7 medals helped the 1896 American Olympic team earn 20 medals in total. Team Member Garrett delivered the most unexpected upset of the 1896 Games when he won Gold in the Discus, outperforming his Greek rival to win the most symbolic sport carried over from the ancient Olympics to the modern Olympic games.
TI members continued to participate in the Olympics after the 1896 Athens games.  Garrett returned to the Olympics for the 1900 Paris games where he won two bronze medals. He was joined in the Paris games by John Cregan who won a silver medal in the 800 meters. John DeWitt competed in the 1904 St. Louis games; he was joined there by A. M. Woods, who earned a silver medal. 
Pete Raymond rowed in both the 1968 Mexico City and 1972 Munich games; he earned a silver medal in Munich.
Most recently, in 2024, current TI member Maia Mei Weintraub competed in the Women's Team Foil Fencing event for Team USA, where she carried her team to Olympic Gold. The victory marked the first time that the United States has taken gold in a team fencing event.
Tiger Inn members have earned more than 12 Olympic medals. Garrett's lifetime record of 6 Olympic medals among Princeton athletes continues to stand.
Tiger Inn members have been both Princeton football players, and professional football players. The College Football Hall of Fame lists many TI members in its ranks.
Tiger Inn alumni have returned to Princeton to serve as Head Coaches of Princeton's football program.  As college football head coaches, Tiger Inn alumni through the class of 1900 compiled composite career coaching records of 175-31-5. They coached Princeton to at least one national championship. TI members who served as Princeton Football Head Coach include Garrett Cochran, Arthur Hillebrand and Robert Casciola. TI Members have also served as Head Coaches of Football at Annapolis, Berkeley, Bowdoin,  Georgetown,  and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, among other colleges.
Charlie Gogolak and Cosmo Iacavazzi are two prominent TI members who became professional football players.
Through the club's history Tiger Inn members have also featured prominently in other collegiate sports in which Princeton competes.
In 2012 the Princeton men's squash team won the National Collegiate Championship powered by the performances of three Tiger Inn members.
Tiger Inn's sole winner of a Nobel Prize, thus far, is economist Michael Spence, the winner of the 2001 Nobel Prize in Economics together with George Akerlof and Joseph Stiglitz. During his illustrious career Spence has served as dean of the Stanford Graduate School of Business and is presently chairman of the Commission for Growth and Development.
Princeton University's School of Architecture was founded in 1919 through the efforts of Tiger Inn Charter Member Howard Clark Butler and his fellow faculty members. He became the School of Architecture's director in 1920. Professor Butler was only the second Princeton Professor to offer a course related to architecture, following the precedent set by Princeton Professor Marquand.
In addition to Spence, Tiger Inn has produced well over 100 members of Phi Beta Kappa. Its members have earned at least three Rhodes, and two Marshall, Scholarships.  TI members serve as research scientists at the Bell Labs and NASA and in the research or "Think Tank" roles of such commercial organizations as international financial institutions and the BIG 4 accounting firms, among other organizations.
Tiger Inn alumni have served many universities, including Princeton, as faculty members and as non-faculty instructors and administrators. Spence has served Harvard University, New York University and Stanford University. Butler served Princeton as did noted philologist W K. Prentice. Chauncey Loomis was a Dartmouth professor, and from there, led 5 Arctic expeditions.  James Harland was a professor of classics at University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. John Fine joined the Princeton faculty in 1940 from Yale as a professor of Classics  and retired in 1972. Richard H Williams is a professor of history at Southern Methodist University. Samuel Armistead is a professor of Spanish language and literature at UC Davis.
Sean Smith is a professor of computer science at Dartmouth. Joseph Haid is a professor at Wisconsin Polytechnique Institute.
Will Garwood continues to serve Princeton as vice chairman of advisory board to the James Madison Program  On June 12, 2012, Robert J Hugin was elected a Charter Trustee of Princeton University
Tiger Inn's members have been active in literature and the arts. Jesse Williams won the first Pulitzer Prize in Drama. Frank Taplin was president of the Metropolitan Opera in New York, the Cleveland Orchestra, and the Cleveland Institute of Music. Thomas Hoving was the director of New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art. And Barry S Friedberg is the chairman emeritus of the New York City Ballet.
Jesse Williams, the author of Why Marry?, has been joined by several other Tiger Inn members as accomplished authors. William Edwards' book Football Days remains the definitive account of American Football in the 19th century. Classics Professor John Fine wrote several books, including The Ancient Greeks: A Critical History. Samuel Armistead wrote Spanish Tradition in Louisiana, which remains the definitive study on the use of the Spanish language in that state. H K Twichell wrote Regeneration in the Ruhr: The Unknown Story of a Decisive Answer to Communism in Postwar Europe.  Henry Owsley is co-author of the leading book in his field, Distressed Investment Banking: To the Abyss and Back.
Chauncey Loomis remains Tiger Inn's only Arctic explorer.
Several members of the Tiger Inn have served the United States as uniformed officers of its Armed Forces. TI was founded just over 20 years after the end of the Civil War. TI members have served in the Spanish–American War, World War I, World War II, the Korean war, the Vietnam war, Desert Storm and the more recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, among other armed conflicts.
TI Members who served in World War I include Brigadier General Coulter, Medal of Honor recipient Gordon Johnston, and decorated World War I Flying Ace, "Ace" Vaughn.
Tiger Inn lists well over 30 members who gave their lives in the service of their country. The memory of many of these TI alums are honored through their portraits kept at the clubhouse, mainly in the upstairs Library.
TI members have also served their communities through various positions at the Federal, State and local levels. Tiger Inn members have served as United States Senator and United States Ambassador at the federal level, Speaker of the House in New Jersey at the state level, and Deputy Mayor of New York City at the local level. Senator John Danforth ranks as the senior-most elected politician as an Active Member of the club while a Princeton undergraduate.  United States President Grover Cleveland accepted an Honorary Membership in Tiger Inn, making him the senior-most elected politician to have joined the club in this membership category.
TI alum Louis Le Guyader is among the first candidates ever to run for the new elective office of DEPUTE to the French National Assembly from his home in New York - his new electoral district was created under a change to the French Constitution in 2008 and is meant to represent French Citizens living in the United States and Canada. As such he is the first TI member ever to seek elective office abroad.
Arthur M Wood  was chairman and C.E.O. of Sears  and credited with its turnaround in the 1960s.  He was also responsible for the building of Sears Tower in Chicago, whose last steel beam bears his signature. George H Love led the reorganizations and turnarounds at two major corporations, the Consolidation Coal Company and The Chrysler Corporation, where he was chairman. Barry S Friedberg served as head of investment banking at Merrill Lynch, before its merger with Bank of America; under his leadership Merrill climbed to the top of the industry league tables in every category he managed.
Rudolph J. Schaefer ran his family's highly acclaimed Brooklyn brewery, the F & M Schaefer Brewing Company of Brooklyn, New York. His product, Schaefer Beer, was the world's best selling beer until the mid-1970s.
Robert Hugin is chairman and president of Celgene, the New Jersey pharmaceutical company. Michael Novogratz is president of the Fortress Investment Group
N.J. Nicholas Jr was president of HBO in its earliest days, president of Time Inc in 1986 and co-ceo of Time Warner in 1990. He served the GHW Bush administration on the PCEQ (presidential commission on environmental quality) and on the advisory board to the US Trade Representative. After retiring from Time Warner in 1992, he served for 15 years as a trustee of Environmental Defense Fund, including seven years as board chair.  He also served as advisory board chair of the Columbia School of Journalism.
In 2014, two club officers were removed from their positions after sending emails ridiculing women. One of the emails included a sexually explicit photograph showing a woman, denoted as an Asian chick, engaged in a sexual act. In the other email the club's treasurer wrote about the alumna whose lawsuit forced the club to admit women: “Ever wonder who we have to thank (blame) for gender equality. Looking for someone to blame for the influx of girls? Come tomorrow and help boo Sally Frank.”
Gerardo "Gerry" Angulo - publisher of the only English-language daily newspaper in Puerto Rico, The San Juan Star 
Samuel G. Armistead - Professor Emeritus of Spanish Language and History, UC Davis.
James T. Aubrey - television and film executive
Ralph Bard - Under Secretary of the Navy and Assistant Secretary of the Navy during World War II, Roosevelt Administration
Dan M. Berkovitz - General Counsel of the CFTC, Obama Administration 
Walter C. Booth - known as "Bummy," an American football coach serving as the head football coach at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln (the Huskers), compiling a career record of 46-8-1.
R. Manning Brown Jr. - former chairman of the board of New York Life Insurance Co. and former chairman of Princeton University's Board of Trustees 
Howard Crosby Butler - Charter Member, one of the founders of Princeton's School of Architecture, and its director from 1920 
Robert Casciola - head football coach at Princeton from 1973 to 1977.
Grover Cleveland - Honorary Member, President of the United States.
Garrett Cochran -  head football coach at the University of California, Berkeley (1898–99), the United States Naval Academy (1900) and Princeton (1902), with a career coaching record of 29–5–3.
Richard Coulter Jr. - Charter Member, Brigadier General in the U.S. Army in WWI; professional football player
John F. Cregan - Olympic athlete; participated in the 1900 Olympic games earning a silver medal 
John Danforth - former United States Senator, Missouri; ordained priest in the Episcopal Church 
John R. DeWitt - Olympic athlete, St Louis Games of 1904; College Football Hall of Fame  
Selden Edwards - best-selling novelist, author of The Little Book and The Lost Prince, educator, and secretary of the Princeton class of '63
William Hanford Edwards - author of Football Days, the definitive work on American Football in the 19th century; famous for saving the life of N.Y. Mayor William Gaynor by tackling his assailant.
Max Farrand - Charter Member, professor, first director of the Huntington Library, past president of the American Historical Society
John V. A. Fine - Classics Professor at Princeton, noted author in Greek history
Barry S. Friedberg - former Executive Vice President of Merrill Lynch, and Head of Investment Banking, Chairman Emeritus of the New York City Ballet 
Robert Garrett - the first modern Olympic champion in the discus; organized the 4 Princetonians who competed in the 1896 Athens games; won two golds and two silvers in Athens, 1896, and two bronzes in Paris, 1900.
Will Garwood - President of Cypress Asset Management and, at Princeton, vice chairman of the advisory board of the James Madison Program.
Charlie Gogolak - football placekicker noted for his innovations; initially with the Washington Redskins and then the New England Patriots
Hy Gunning - Associate Member, played professional baseball with the Boston Red Sox; he was noted for batting left-handed and throwing right-handed.
J. P. Harland - Professor of Classics, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
John Grier Hibben - honorary member; president of Princeton, 1920–32; he opposed President Wilson's plans to replace the Eating Clubs with a system of residential quadrangles.
Arthur Hillebrand - head football coach at Princeton, 1903–05, his record was 27–4 and the team out-scored opponents 669–85; the 1903 team was 11–0 and was national champion.
Thomas Hoving – former director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art
Robert J. Hugin - chairman and President of Celgene, Inc.; elected Charter Trustee of Princeton in June 2012.
Cosmo Iacavazzi - professional football player, a member of the New York Jets; inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
Herbert Jamison - member of the first U.S. Olympic Team at the first modern Olympic games in Athens, where he won a silver medal.
Gordon Johnston -  Colonel, U.S. Army, recipient of the Medal of Honor, the highest military award of the U.S.A.; head coach of the University of North Carolina (the Tar Heels) football team in 1896.
Philip King - American football player, notable as a college football coach, especially at Georgetown University, compiling a career record of 73-14-1.
Howard Krongard - known as "Cookie;"  head of the Office of the inspector general of the Department of State; Bush "43" Administration.
Frank A. Lane - member of the first U.S. Olympic Team in Athens, 1896; technically, the first American to compete in the modern Olympiad; bronze medal winner 
Louis Le Guyader - the first TI member to seek elective office outside the United States in a campaign to serve as a Depute in the French National Assembly in 2012 
Chauncey C. Loomis - famous Arctic explorer who led 5 expeditions to the Arctic, and Dartmouth professor.
Donald Lourie - Under Secretary of State for Administration, Eisenhower Administration; declined a pro football career with the Cleveland Browns.
Roscoe Parke McClave - Head Football Coach, Bowdoin College; twice Speaker of the House, General Assembly of New Jersey.
Albert G. Milbank - founding partner of the law firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy
Joshua Miller - founder of Resilient Youth Foundation as a teen; founder of startup atroundtable.com which is being referred to as "the next facebook for internet conversations among experts" 
Roland S. Morris - American Ambassador to Japan, 1917–20.
N. J. Nicholas Jr - President of HBO in its earliest days, President of Time Inc in 1986 and co-ceo of Time Warner in 1990
Michael Novogratz – president of the Fortress Investment Group
Henry Furlow Owsley III - Wall Street financier, noted as co-author of the leading book in his field, Distressed Investment Banking: To the Abyss and Back  and in 2014, "Equity Holders Under Siege: Strategies and Tactics for Distressed Businesses," Beard Books LLC
W. K. Prentice - Princeton Professor, noted philologist.
Marc Rayman - Project Manager of Deep Space 1, NASA 
Pete Raymond - two time Olympic oarsman, won the silver medal in Munich in 1972; "a god among men."
Wayne Rogers - actor, "Trapper McIntyre" for three seasons on "M.A.S.H."
Rudolf J. Schaefer - yachtsman and brewer, ran the F & M Schaefer Brewing Company of Brooklyn, New York.
Mawell "Max" Shaw - founder of Shawskaboy inc. and the Face Morpher and Pro Interval Timer iPhone Apps.
Michael Spence - a Nobel Prize winner in Economics; Rhodes Scholar; former dean of the Stanford Graduate School of Business.
Robert "Huck" Alston Stevenson - Charter Member, second headmaster of the Allen-Stevenson School the private elementary school in New York City, founded by his father 
Frank E Taplin Jr. - a Rhodes Scholar; president of the Metropolitan Opera 
H. K. Twitchell - Executive director of Moral Re-Armament, an international religious movement founded in 1938 in London, where it was founded to reshape the world through absolute morality; author of "Regeneration in the Ruhr: The Unknown Story of a Decisive Answer to Communism in Postwar Europe," Princeton University Press
George Augustus Vaughn, Jr. - known as "Ace,"  a  World War I Flying Ace: officially credited with downing 12 enemy planes and one balloon
Jesse Lynch Williams - Charter Member, prize winning author and dramatist, won the first Pulitzer Prize in drama in 1918 for the play Why Marry?
A. M. Woods - lacrosse player and Olympic Athlete, 1904 games, where he earned a silver medal.
John E. Zuccotti - former First Deputy Mayor of New York City
Zack Wall - actor, "The Village" (2004), "The Great New Wonderful" (2005), "Coda" (2014), and "SnapChat Guy" (2016).
Official Tiger Inn Website
History and culture of the clubs, at Princeton's official site.
History of the Tiger Inn building Archived 2008-01-24 at the Wayback MachineCannon Dial Elm Club, also known as Cannon Club, is one of the historic Eating Clubs at Princeton University. Founded in 1895, it completed its current clubhouse in 1910. The club closed in the early 1970s and later merged with Dial Lodge and Elm Club to form Dial, Elm, Cannon (DEC), which closed its doors in 1998. In 2011 DEC reopened, now bearing the name Cannon Dial Elm Club, using its historic clubhouse, which had served as the home for the Office of Population Research during the club's hiatus.

History
Founding
The Eating Clubs play a central role in the history and life of Princeton University, serving as the primary place of dining and social life for more than 70% of upperclassmen.  Cannon Club was founded in 1895 and housed in a small house on William Street that had been home to Tiger Inn for the previous two years. From 1896 to 1899 it was located in the "Incubator" a small house, at that time on Olden Street, that served as an early home to many of the Eating Clubs as they established themselves and sought to build clubhouses. In 1899, Cannon Club purchased the Osborn House that stood on the south side of Prospect Avenue, between the McCosh and West residences. That home fell into disrepair by 1908 and Edgar Viguers Seeler, a prominent Philadelphia architect, was commissioned to build a new clubhouse. That Collegiate Gothic clubhouse, completed in 1910, was the first of the clubs to make use of local stone. While the facade has been described as plain in comparison with other clubs, the rear elevation and interiors have been praised, with the two-story living room considered one of the finest interior spaces found on Prospect. The eponymous cannon sits in front of the clubhouse, pointed at Prospect Avenue. President-elect Woodrow Wilson, on a last stroll before departing for Washington, commented to reporters: "Hardly a chummy entrance that!"

Closure
The early 1970s saw a fall in membership, ultimately precipitating the closure of the clubhouse. The property came into the possession of the university, which spent 3/4 of a million dollars on renovations and deferred maintenance to turn the clubhouse into an academic building, Notestein Hall, which housed the Office of Population Research for over 30 years.

Reopening
Despite the closure of the club, Cannon Club continued as a graduate board determined to continue the club's traditions and see it one day reopened. In 1989, Cannon merged with the financially imperiled Dial Lodge, and the combined entity was joined by Elm Club the following year. The stated goal of the new Dial Elm Cannon Club (DEC) was to exchange the Dial and Elm clubhouses for the old Cannon Club. In 1997, an agreement was reached to exchange Dial and Elm for the Cannon clubhouse and $2 million.  The club was unable to reopen Cannon at that time but retained the option to purchase the building. This led to the second demise of the club with periodic claims that Cannon would reopen, a feat accomplished in 2011. Today, the club is again thriving and healthy.

Notable Alumni
Robert Baldwin — Chairman of Morgan Stanley, Under Secretary of the Navy (1965-1967)
Mark Milley — Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Chief of Staff of the Army
The Hon. Paul Sarbanes — US House of Representatives (1971-77) and US Senator (1977-2007)
Norman Augustine — Chairman and CEO of Lockheed Martin, Under Secretary of the Army (1975-1977), Chairman of the Augustine Spaceflight Committee
Christopher Eisgruber - President of Princeton University
Malcolm Forbes - Publisher of Forbes Magazine, New Jersey State Representative
Bill Haarlow — President of Chemicals Division of Quaker Oats Company and later owner
Art Hyland  — Secretary/editor of NCAA  Basketball Rules Committee
Jim Morgan — President & CEO of Philip Morris USA, CEO of Atari
John "Rocky" Barrett — Chairman of the Citizen Potawatomi Nation
Frank Biondi — CEO of HBO, Universal Pictures, and Viacom; Trustee of Princeton University
Jay Higgins — Vice Chairman of Salomon Brothers, Owner of Waterville Golf Links
Mike O’Neill — Chairman of CitiGroup, CEO of Barclays, CEO of the Bank of Hawaii.
John F. Kennedy - 35th President of the United States, U.S. Senator^
James Billington — 13th Librarian of Congress (1987-2015)
Thomas Christie — Chief Operating Officer of Showtime Networks Inc
Karl Chandler — (ret) NFL Football player, NY Giants & Detroit Lions
Karen Smyers — Three time World Champion, Three time Ironman Champion
John C. Bogle — Founder and chief executive of The Vanguard Group
Stan Rubin — Conductor, The Stan Rubin Orchestra
Robert Caro — Lyndon Johnson and Robert Moses biographer, Two time Pulitzer Prize winner and National Humanities Medal Recipient
Michelle Obama - Former First Lady, Author, Philanthropist^
Frank Stella — Painter & Sculptor, National Medal of Arts Recipient
John Streicker — Chairman of Sentinel Real Estate Corporation
Bradford L. Smith — President & Chief Legal Officer of Microsoft, Princeton University Trustee
Katherine Brittain Bradley — Founder and President of the CityBridge Foundation, Princeton University Trustee
Steve Papa — Founder of CEO Endeca, Founder and Chairman of Parallel Wireless
Gerhard Andlinger - Andlinger Centers namesake and business executive
Andrei Iosivas - NFL Football Player, WR for Cincinnati Bengals
^denotes honorary members

References
External links
Official website
The Eating Clubs play a central role in the history and life of Princeton University, serving as the primary place of dining and social life for more than 70% of upperclassmen.  Cannon Club was founded in 1895 and housed in a small house on William Street that had been home to Tiger Inn for the previous two years. From 1896 to 1899 it was located in the "Incubator" a small house, at that time on Olden Street, that served as an early home to many of the Eating Clubs as they established themselves and sought to build clubhouses. In 1899, Cannon Club purchased the Osborn House that stood on the south side of Prospect Avenue, between the McCosh and West residences. That home fell into disrepair by 1908 and Edgar Viguers Seeler, a prominent Philadelphia architect, was commissioned to build a new clubhouse. That Collegiate Gothic clubhouse, completed in 1910, was the first of the clubs to make use of local stone. While the facade has been described as plain in comparison with other clubs, the rear elevation and interiors have been praised, with the two-story living room considered one of the finest interior spaces found on Prospect. The eponymous cannon sits in front of the clubhouse, pointed at Prospect Avenue. President-elect Woodrow Wilson, on a last stroll before departing for Washington, commented to reporters: "Hardly a chummy entrance that!"
The early 1970s saw a fall in membership, ultimately precipitating the closure of the clubhouse. The property came into the possession of the university, which spent 3/4 of a million dollars on renovations and deferred maintenance to turn the clubhouse into an academic building, Notestein Hall, which housed the Office of Population Research for over 30 years.
Despite the closure of the club, Cannon Club continued as a graduate board determined to continue the club's traditions and see it one day reopened. In 1989, Cannon merged with the financially imperiled Dial Lodge, and the combined entity was joined by Elm Club the following year. The stated goal of the new Dial Elm Cannon Club (DEC) was to exchange the Dial and Elm clubhouses for the old Cannon Club. In 1997, an agreement was reached to exchange Dial and Elm for the Cannon clubhouse and $2 million.  The club was unable to reopen Cannon at that time but retained the option to purchase the building. This led to the second demise of the club with periodic claims that Cannon would reopen, a feat accomplished in 2011. Today, the club is again thriving and healthy.
Robert Baldwin — Chairman of Morgan Stanley, Under Secretary of the Navy (1965-1967)
Mark Milley — Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Chief of Staff of the Army
The Hon. Paul Sarbanes — US House of Representatives (1971-77) and US Senator (1977-2007)
Norman Augustine — Chairman and CEO of Lockheed Martin, Under Secretary of the Army (1975-1977), Chairman of the Augustine Spaceflight Committee
Christopher Eisgruber - President of Princeton University
Malcolm Forbes - Publisher of Forbes Magazine, New Jersey State Representative
Bill Haarlow — President of Chemicals Division of Quaker Oats Company and later owner
Art Hyland  — Secretary/editor of NCAA  Basketball Rules Committee
Jim Morgan — President & CEO of Philip Morris USA, CEO of Atari
John "Rocky" Barrett — Chairman of the Citizen Potawatomi Nation
Frank Biondi — CEO of HBO, Universal Pictures, and Viacom; Trustee of Princeton University
Jay Higgins — Vice Chairman of Salomon Brothers, Owner of Waterville Golf Links
Mike O’Neill — Chairman of CitiGroup, CEO of Barclays, CEO of the Bank of Hawaii.
John F. Kennedy - 35th President of the United States, U.S. Senator^
James Billington — 13th Librarian of Congress (1987-2015)
Thomas Christie — Chief Operating Officer of Showtime Networks Inc
Karl Chandler — (ret) NFL Football player, NY Giants & Detroit Lions
Karen Smyers — Three time World Champion, Three time Ironman Champion
John C. Bogle — Founder and chief executive of The Vanguard Group
Stan Rubin — Conductor, The Stan Rubin Orchestra
Robert Caro — Lyndon Johnson and Robert Moses biographer, Two time Pulitzer Prize winner and National Humanities Medal Recipient
Michelle Obama - Former First Lady, Author, Philanthropist^
Frank Stella — Painter & Sculptor, National Medal of Arts Recipient
John Streicker — Chairman of Sentinel Real Estate Corporation
Bradford L. Smith — President & Chief Legal Officer of Microsoft, Princeton University Trustee
Katherine Brittain Bradley — Founder and President of the CityBridge Foundation, Princeton University Trustee
Steve Papa — Founder of CEO Endeca, Founder and Chairman of Parallel Wireless
Gerhard Andlinger - Andlinger Centers namesake and business executive
Andrei Iosivas - NFL Football Player, WR for Cincinnati Bengals
^denotes honorary members
Official websitePrinceton Terrace Club is one of eleven current eating clubs at Princeton University in Princeton, New Jersey, United States. Terrace Club was founded in 1904 and is located at 62 Washington Road. It is the sole Princeton eating club located off Prospect Avenue.

Membership and culture
In 1967, Terrace became the first eating club to switch to a nonselective lottery "sign-in" system for membership, as opposed to the selective bicker system. Terrace was soon followed by Campus, Colonial, and Cloister. Today five of the 11 remaining operating clubs do not use the bicker system. Terrace was one of the earliest clubs to accept Jewish, African-American, and female members, and today is considered on campus to be the most "alternative," politically liberal eating club. Since 2000, Terrace has been a popular choice for sophomores, filling all of its membership slots either during first round sign-in or by the end of the second round.
Terrace's motto has been "Food=Love" since the mid-eighties. The food is served cafeteria-style and is famous for being more vegetarian-friendly than other clubs. Members of Terrace often refer to the club as "Terrace F. Club" or "TFC". Other nicknames include "the mother," "mother Terrace," or "the womb," and members often refer to themselves as "Terrans".
Weekend events at Terrace often include concerts of indie-scene bands from a variety of genres, including rock, hip-hop, salsa, jazz, and electronica. Many notable artists and groups, including former club member Stanley Jordan, Flipper, Phil Lesh, Yo La Tengo, GWAR, Blues Traveler (Summer '87), ESG, Bim Skala Bim, Elliott Smith, Run DMC, Modest Mouse, The Flaming Lips, Vampire Weekend, Frightened Rabbit, Girl Talk, GZA, Immortal Technique, Stereolab, Snarky Puppy, Action Bronson, Vulfpeck, and Tortoise have played at Terrace, some before they were nationally known. Terrace also hosts the Queer Radicals' Annual Drag Ball in October or November.

History
As was then common practice for newly founded eating clubs, when Terrace Club began in 1904, the members dined in a building on Olden Street known as "The Incubator." This small structure had previously been the original home of Cap & Gown, and had been relocated to Olden Street from Cap and Gown's current location. It served as a temporary home for many eating clubs while their own buildings were under construction or being renovated.
In 1906, the club relocated to the current Washington Road location, which was occupied by a house in the Colonial Revival style which had formerly belonged to faculty member John Grier Hibben. This building was remodeled by architect Frederick Stone in the 1920s to the current configuration with its Tudor-style exterior.
A tea party at Terrace in 1936 is credited as the birthplace of the idea for the short-lived Veterans of Future Wars, an organization that satirized the acceleration of bonus payments to World War I veterans by demanding that its young members be similarly paid for the services they would render their country in conflicts to come.
In 1967, Terrace became the first club to abandon the bicker process. Terrace Club and Colonial Club were the first clubs to accept women following the University's decision to admit women in 1969. In 2011, Terrace became the first club to offer membership to graduate students.
From 1977 until 1984, many of the sign-in clubs faltered due to declining membership numbers, and the Graduate Board seriously considered closing Terrace in 1983. As an attempt to attract new members, chef Larry Frazer began cooking vegetarian meals, a new concept on campus at the time. Frazer was married in Terrace Club in 1982 with the officers acting as attendants and guitarist Stanley Jordan as the musical performer. Frazer later moved on to become chef at Campus Club at the short-lived DEC, and served as the Executive Catering Chef for the University itself.
Much of the reputation Terrace enjoys today grew with the leadership and love of the late Barton R. Rouse, the creative force behind Terrace's parties and excellent food.  Frazer had hired Rouse originally to serve as sous chef in 1984 and Rouse later succeeded Frazer as head chef for the club.  Rouse was the originator of the club's "Food=Love" motto  and brought an imaginative flair to his job, including the creation of themed meals and parties, which soon became a hallmark of the club. Rouse served in this role until his death in 1994.

Notable alumni
Harold Medina '09 - Lawyer and judge notable for hearing landmark cases of conspiracy and treason 
William H. Scheide '36 - Musician, philanthropist, and humanitarian.  Relocated the Scheide Library, "probably the finest private library in existence in the world," to Princeton's Firestone Library. A primary funder of Brown vs. Board of Education.
Mel Ferrer '39 - Actor, film director and producer
Russell E. Train '41 - President of World Wildlife Fund, 1978-1985 
Warren Eginton '45 - Senior U.S. District judge for District of Connecticut
Galway Kinnell '48 - Poet, translator, and author
Jacques-André Istel '49 - Parachutist and "father of modern skydiving"
Richard Riordan '52 - Former mayor of Los Angeles
Alan Blinder '67 - Former Vice Chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve and professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University
Madison Smartt Bell '79 - Novelist
Ken McCarthy '81 - Internet commercialization pioneer, author, educator (Terrace Social Director)
Stanley Jordan '81 - Jazz guitarist
Dana L. Harrison '81 - Finance then core organizer of Burning Man festival. Worked with numerous spiritual and creative organizations around the Bay Area. ( Terrace President )
Douglas Rushkoff '83 - Author and media theorist
Walter Kirn '83 - Novelist and Literary Critic
Howard Gordon '84 - TV writer, producer, and showrunner
Jonathan Ames '86/'87 - Writer, raconteur and performance artist, creator of HBO's Bored to Death
Kate Betts '86 - American fashion journalist - senior editor at American Vogue, editor of Harper's Bazaar
Nils Muižnieks '86 - Human rights activist and political scientist, Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights since 2012
Todd Wider '86 - Plastic surgeon and Emmy Award-winning film producer
Jack Weiss '86 - Former Los Angeles City Council member
Sina Najafi '86/'87 - founder and editor-in-chief of New York-based Cabinet Magazine
Jennifer S. Hirsch '88 - Researcher, professor at Columbia University, social justice advocate, and author
Ron Norsworthy '88 - Visual artist, product and production designer (TV Shows, Specials & Music Videos)
Sophia Rosenfeld '88 - Historian, professor, and author
E. Randol Schoenberg '88 - U.S. attorney, based in Los Angeles, California. Successful case in Supreme Court of the United States Republic of Austria v. Altmann in 2004. President of the Los Angeles Museum of the Holocaust.
Theodore Zoli '88 - American structural engineer, and a leading designer of cable-stayed bridges. 2009 MacArthur Fellows Program
Vanessa Friedman '89 - Fashion director and chief fashion critic at The New York Times.
Clifford J. Levy '89 - Two-time winner of the Pulitzer Prize, in 2003 and 2011, for The New York Times,
Josh Marshall '91 - American Polk Award-winning journalist and blogger who founded Talking Points Memo
Mark Feuerstein '93 - Actor
Mohsin Hamid '93 - Author
Peter Moskos '94 - Author
Jordan Roth '97 - President and majority owner of Jujamcyn Theaters
Tim Ferriss '00 - Entrepreneur, investor, and author
Jonathan Safran Foer '00 - Author
Julia Ioffe '05 - Journalist who covers national security and foreign policy topics
Branden Jacobs-Jenkins '06 - Playwright

References
External links
Official Terrace Club Website
List of shows at Terrace
History and culture of the clubs, at Princeton's official site.
In 1967, Terrace became the first eating club to switch to a nonselective lottery "sign-in" system for membership, as opposed to the selective bicker system. Terrace was soon followed by Campus, Colonial, and Cloister. Today five of the 11 remaining operating clubs do not use the bicker system. Terrace was one of the earliest clubs to accept Jewish, African-American, and female members, and today is considered on campus to be the most "alternative," politically liberal eating club. Since 2000, Terrace has been a popular choice for sophomores, filling all of its membership slots either during first round sign-in or by the end of the second round.
Terrace's motto has been "Food=Love" since the mid-eighties. The food is served cafeteria-style and is famous for being more vegetarian-friendly than other clubs. Members of Terrace often refer to the club as "Terrace F. Club" or "TFC". Other nicknames include "the mother," "mother Terrace," or "the womb," and members often refer to themselves as "Terrans".
Weekend events at Terrace often include concerts of indie-scene bands from a variety of genres, including rock, hip-hop, salsa, jazz, and electronica. Many notable artists and groups, including former club member Stanley Jordan, Flipper, Phil Lesh, Yo La Tengo, GWAR, Blues Traveler (Summer '87), ESG, Bim Skala Bim, Elliott Smith, Run DMC, Modest Mouse, The Flaming Lips, Vampire Weekend, Frightened Rabbit, Girl Talk, GZA, Immortal Technique, Stereolab, Snarky Puppy, Action Bronson, Vulfpeck, and Tortoise have played at Terrace, some before they were nationally known. Terrace also hosts the Queer Radicals' Annual Drag Ball in October or November.
As was then common practice for newly founded eating clubs, when Terrace Club began in 1904, the members dined in a building on Olden Street known as "The Incubator." This small structure had previously been the original home of Cap & Gown, and had been relocated to Olden Street from Cap and Gown's current location. It served as a temporary home for many eating clubs while their own buildings were under construction or being renovated.
In 1906, the club relocated to the current Washington Road location, which was occupied by a house in the Colonial Revival style which had formerly belonged to faculty member John Grier Hibben. This building was remodeled by architect Frederick Stone in the 1920s to the current configuration with its Tudor-style exterior.
A tea party at Terrace in 1936 is credited as the birthplace of the idea for the short-lived Veterans of Future Wars, an organization that satirized the acceleration of bonus payments to World War I veterans by demanding that its young members be similarly paid for the services they would render their country in conflicts to come.
In 1967, Terrace became the first club to abandon the bicker process. Terrace Club and Colonial Club were the first clubs to accept women following the University's decision to admit women in 1969. In 2011, Terrace became the first club to offer membership to graduate students.
From 1977 until 1984, many of the sign-in clubs faltered due to declining membership numbers, and the Graduate Board seriously considered closing Terrace in 1983. As an attempt to attract new members, chef Larry Frazer began cooking vegetarian meals, a new concept on campus at the time. Frazer was married in Terrace Club in 1982 with the officers acting as attendants and guitarist Stanley Jordan as the musical performer. Frazer later moved on to become chef at Campus Club at the short-lived DEC, and served as the Executive Catering Chef for the University itself.
Much of the reputation Terrace enjoys today grew with the leadership and love of the late Barton R. Rouse, the creative force behind Terrace's parties and excellent food.  Frazer had hired Rouse originally to serve as sous chef in 1984 and Rouse later succeeded Frazer as head chef for the club.  Rouse was the originator of the club's "Food=Love" motto  and brought an imaginative flair to his job, including the creation of themed meals and parties, which soon became a hallmark of the club. Rouse served in this role until his death in 1994.
Harold Medina '09 - Lawyer and judge notable for hearing landmark cases of conspiracy and treason 
William H. Scheide '36 - Musician, philanthropist, and humanitarian.  Relocated the Scheide Library, "probably the finest private library in existence in the world," to Princeton's Firestone Library. A primary funder of Brown vs. Board of Education.
Mel Ferrer '39 - Actor, film director and producer
Russell E. Train '41 - President of World Wildlife Fund, 1978-1985 
Warren Eginton '45 - Senior U.S. District judge for District of Connecticut
Galway Kinnell '48 - Poet, translator, and author
Jacques-André Istel '49 - Parachutist and "father of modern skydiving"
Richard Riordan '52 - Former mayor of Los Angeles
Alan Blinder '67 - Former Vice Chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve and professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University
Madison Smartt Bell '79 - Novelist
Ken McCarthy '81 - Internet commercialization pioneer, author, educator (Terrace Social Director)
Stanley Jordan '81 - Jazz guitarist
Dana L. Harrison '81 - Finance then core organizer of Burning Man festival. Worked with numerous spiritual and creative organizations around the Bay Area. ( Terrace President )
Douglas Rushkoff '83 - Author and media theorist
Walter Kirn '83 - Novelist and Literary Critic
Howard Gordon '84 - TV writer, producer, and showrunner
Jonathan Ames '86/'87 - Writer, raconteur and performance artist, creator of HBO's Bored to Death
Kate Betts '86 - American fashion journalist - senior editor at American Vogue, editor of Harper's Bazaar
Nils Muižnieks '86 - Human rights activist and political scientist, Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights since 2012
Todd Wider '86 - Plastic surgeon and Emmy Award-winning film producer
Jack Weiss '86 - Former Los Angeles City Council member
Sina Najafi '86/'87 - founder and editor-in-chief of New York-based Cabinet Magazine
Jennifer S. Hirsch '88 - Researcher, professor at Columbia University, social justice advocate, and author
Ron Norsworthy '88 - Visual artist, product and production designer (TV Shows, Specials & Music Videos)
Sophia Rosenfeld '88 - Historian, professor, and author
E. Randol Schoenberg '88 - U.S. attorney, based in Los Angeles, California. Successful case in Supreme Court of the United States Republic of Austria v. Altmann in 2004. President of the Los Angeles Museum of the Holocaust.
Theodore Zoli '88 - American structural engineer, and a leading designer of cable-stayed bridges. 2009 MacArthur Fellows Program
Vanessa Friedman '89 - Fashion director and chief fashion critic at The New York Times.
Clifford J. Levy '89 - Two-time winner of the Pulitzer Prize, in 2003 and 2011, for The New York Times,
Josh Marshall '91 - American Polk Award-winning journalist and blogger who founded Talking Points Memo
Mark Feuerstein '93 - Actor
Mohsin Hamid '93 - Author
Peter Moskos '94 - Author
Jordan Roth '97 - President and majority owner of Jujamcyn Theaters
Tim Ferriss '00 - Entrepreneur, investor, and author
Jonathan Safran Foer '00 - Author
Julia Ioffe '05 - Journalist who covers national security and foreign policy topics
Branden Jacobs-Jenkins '06 - Playwright
Official Terrace Club Website
List of shows at Terrace
History and culture of the clubs, at Princeton's official site.Princeton Tower Club is one of the eleven eating clubs at Princeton University in Princeton, New Jersey, United States, and one of six clubs to choose its members through a selective process called bicker. Tower is located at 13 Prospect Avenue between the university-run Campus Club and the Cannon Club. It currently has a membership of approximately 220.
Founded in 1903, the club moved several times before settling down at 13 Prospect Avenue in 1917.

History
In the spring of 1902, five Princeton students, John Lee, Henry Pogue, Otto Wolff, Conway Shearer, and Frank Little, led the formation of the new upperclassmen eating club, with a $400 stake placed in 1903.
The club was formed in the old Monastery Club on University Place and totaled 26 members. The club moved to Gulick House on Olden Street and remained there for one year. In 1904, the club moved to a plot of land purchased from the Cottage Club on 89 Prospect Avenue. The new building featured hot-air heating and was improved with new amenities, like a tennis court. The club moved again to the old building for Quadrangle club where it stayed for four years. The club then purchased a new plot of land at 13 Prospect Ave for $25,000. While a structure existed on the premises, there was a desire for a new structured. Designed by Princeton alum Roderic E. Barnes, the new building was constructed in 1917 and is the club's current location.
In 1921, there was a fire at the club, with the most serious damage being on the third floor in the sleeping quarters. Repairs were rapidly undertaken. In 1935, the club donated $5,000 to help fund a new university scholarship. The club remained open during WWII, dropping to its lowest enrollment at 15 members, all of whom were ROTC officers. In 1971, Tower became one of the first clubs to accept women. The club received tax-exempt status in 1972 by hosting university precepts. Reflective of broader campus debate at the time, in 1978, the club voted on potential alternatives to the bicker system but ultimately maintained it.
In 2003, the Tower president was charged with providing alcohol to a minor and causing a nuisance; they resigned.  The club accidentally leaked social security numbers for club alumni in 2008. In 2016, Tower was the final club to use the double bicker system, allowing bickerees to choose two clubs.

Membership
Only currently enrolled Princeton students can be members of Tower Club; the majority of the membership is composed of juniors and seniors, with new sophomore members admitted each spring during "bicker," a selection process lasting three days. Members then discuss who to admit in a "positive" process, where no negative comments are allowed. There is also typically a smaller bicker process held in the fall and open exclusively to students in their junior and senior years.
In 2024, Tower accepted 165 students, the most students of any of the bicker clubs and had an acceptance rate of around 60%. In 2025, Tower’s acceptance rate dropped to a record low of 42.4%. Tower's current president is Vincent Jiang, who was also selected to lead the Interclub Council, the first time for a Tower president since 2001.

Reputation
Tower is traditionally known to attract both artistic and politically engaged students on campus. The club has a reputation for having the best food out of all the eating clubs. Tower is known for its outsized political power, with many members leading notable campus political organizations.

References
Further reading
Selden, William K. (1994). Club Life at Princeton: An Historical Account of the Eating Clubs at Princeton University. Princeton, NJ: Princeton Prospect Foundation.
Zink, Clifford W. (2017). The Princeton Eating Clubs. Princeton, NJ: Princeton Prospect Foundation.

External links
Princeton Tower Club
In the spring of 1902, five Princeton students, John Lee, Henry Pogue, Otto Wolff, Conway Shearer, and Frank Little, led the formation of the new upperclassmen eating club, with a $400 stake placed in 1903.
The club was formed in the old Monastery Club on University Place and totaled 26 members. The club moved to Gulick House on Olden Street and remained there for one year. In 1904, the club moved to a plot of land purchased from the Cottage Club on 89 Prospect Avenue. The new building featured hot-air heating and was improved with new amenities, like a tennis court. The club moved again to the old building for Quadrangle club where it stayed for four years. The club then purchased a new plot of land at 13 Prospect Ave for $25,000. While a structure existed on the premises, there was a desire for a new structured. Designed by Princeton alum Roderic E. Barnes, the new building was constructed in 1917 and is the club's current location.
In 1921, there was a fire at the club, with the most serious damage being on the third floor in the sleeping quarters. Repairs were rapidly undertaken. In 1935, the club donated $5,000 to help fund a new university scholarship. The club remained open during WWII, dropping to its lowest enrollment at 15 members, all of whom were ROTC officers. In 1971, Tower became one of the first clubs to accept women. The club received tax-exempt status in 1972 by hosting university precepts. Reflective of broader campus debate at the time, in 1978, the club voted on potential alternatives to the bicker system but ultimately maintained it.
In 2003, the Tower president was charged with providing alcohol to a minor and causing a nuisance; they resigned.  The club accidentally leaked social security numbers for club alumni in 2008. In 2016, Tower was the final club to use the double bicker system, allowing bickerees to choose two clubs.
Only currently enrolled Princeton students can be members of Tower Club; the majority of the membership is composed of juniors and seniors, with new sophomore members admitted each spring during "bicker," a selection process lasting three days. Members then discuss who to admit in a "positive" process, where no negative comments are allowed. There is also typically a smaller bicker process held in the fall and open exclusively to students in their junior and senior years.
In 2024, Tower accepted 165 students, the most students of any of the bicker clubs and had an acceptance rate of around 60%. In 2025, Tower’s acceptance rate dropped to a record low of 42.4%. Tower's current president is Vincent Jiang, who was also selected to lead the Interclub Council, the first time for a Tower president since 2001.
Tower is traditionally known to attract both artistic and politically engaged students on campus. The club has a reputation for having the best food out of all the eating clubs. Tower is known for its outsized political power, with many members leading notable campus political organizations.
Selden, William K. (1994). Club Life at Princeton: An Historical Account of the Eating Clubs at Princeton University. Princeton, NJ: Princeton Prospect Foundation.
Zink, Clifford W. (2017). The Princeton Eating Clubs. Princeton, NJ: Princeton Prospect Foundation.
Princeton Tower ClubCampus Club was one of the undergraduate eating clubs at Princeton University. Located on the corner of Washington Road and Prospect Avenue, Campus was founded in 1900. It was one of the eating clubs that abandoned the selective bicker process to choose members non-selectively, a status it held for over twenty years.
In an attempt to restore the waning popularity of the club, the club's board pressured the undergraduate officers to reinstate bicker in 2004, causing Campus to become one of six selective clubs (out of eleven total clubs). However, due to the unpopularity of bicker among its members, the club returned to being a sign-in club in the spring of 2005. Facing another year of exceptionally low membership and resulting financial trouble, Campus Club closed later the same year.
In November 2005, the former members and alumni of Campus Club voted to donate the building to the university, under the condition that the 11,000 sq ft (1,000 m2) mansion remain a social venue for Princeton students.
After undergoing renovations for over two years, Campus Club reopened on September 18, 2009, as a clubhouse open to all members of the Princeton community.

History
During the 1900–1901 school year, a number of undergraduates from the now-defunct Yama and Ovando Clubs took a lease on a small house on Olden Street in Princeton. Called "The Incubator," the undergraduates used this house as a temporary location while they searched for a more permanent clubhouse.
In January 1901, the newly elected members of Campus Club began negotiations to purchase the residence of Professor Andrew Fleming West, which was located at the corner of Washington Road and Prospect Avenue (where Campus Club stands today). The club members financed the purchase of the West house through sale of approximately $45,000 of "Princeton Campus Club Bonds." Once the residence was acquired, the new members began using the West residence as their clubhouse.

In 1909, the members of Campus Club elected to construct a new clubhouse, and the original West house was moved to the corner of Nassau Street and Princeton Avenue. The new clubhouse, designed by Raleigh C. Gildersleeve, who had previously designed McCosh Hall and completed alterations to Cap and Gown Club, was completed weeks prior to the 1910 commencement.
On November 24, 1951, a fire broke out inside of Campus Club. The fire caused extensive damage to the third floor, and a major renovation was required. Renovations were completed in 1953, and the club remained in this state until it was acquired by the university in 2005.

References
"Club's choice reflects our drive to exclude". The Daily Princetonian. 2003-05-14. Archived from the original on 2006-10-20. Retrieved 2008-10-03.
"Campus Club closes, future uncertain". The Daily Princetonian. 2005-05-26. Archived from the original on 2007-09-30. Retrieved 2008-10-03.
"Remembering better days: The Campus Club of old". The Daily Princetonian. 2005-09-27. Archived from the original on 2006-10-20. Retrieved 2008-10-03.
"Campus Club's demise reveals social problems". The Daily Princetonian. 2005-09-27. Archived from the original on 2006-10-21. Retrieved 2008-10-03.
"Campus Club hires director". The Daily Princetonian. 2007-09-19. Archived from the original on 2008-09-05. Retrieved 2008-10-03.
"Campus Club asbestos deemed not dangerous". The Daily Princetonian. 2008-04-08. Archived from the original on 2012-02-22. Retrieved 2008-10-03.
"April opening set for Campus Club". The Daily Princetonian. 2008-09-12. Archived from the original on 2008-09-15. Retrieved 2008-10-03.
"Official Campus Club opening delayed until next fall". The Daily Princetonian. 2008-09-12. Archived from the original on 2011-06-14. Retrieved 2009-10-27.
"Campus Club reopens doors". The Daily Princetonian. 2009-09-21. Archived from the original on 2011-06-14. Retrieved 2009-10-27.

External links
Campus Club official University website
Alumni website
Campus Club on the Wayback Machine
During the 1900–1901 school year, a number of undergraduates from the now-defunct Yama and Ovando Clubs took a lease on a small house on Olden Street in Princeton. Called "The Incubator," the undergraduates used this house as a temporary location while they searched for a more permanent clubhouse.
In January 1901, the newly elected members of Campus Club began negotiations to purchase the residence of Professor Andrew Fleming West, which was located at the corner of Washington Road and Prospect Avenue (where Campus Club stands today). The club members financed the purchase of the West house through sale of approximately $45,000 of "Princeton Campus Club Bonds." Once the residence was acquired, the new members began using the West residence as their clubhouse.

In 1909, the members of Campus Club elected to construct a new clubhouse, and the original West house was moved to the corner of Nassau Street and Princeton Avenue. The new clubhouse, designed by Raleigh C. Gildersleeve, who had previously designed McCosh Hall and completed alterations to Cap and Gown Club, was completed weeks prior to the 1910 commencement.
On November 24, 1951, a fire broke out inside of Campus Club. The fire caused extensive damage to the third floor, and a major renovation was required. Renovations were completed in 1953, and the club remained in this state until it was acquired by the university in 2005.
"Club's choice reflects our drive to exclude". The Daily Princetonian. 2003-05-14. Archived from the original on 2006-10-20. Retrieved 2008-10-03.
"Campus Club closes, future uncertain". The Daily Princetonian. 2005-05-26. Archived from the original on 2007-09-30. Retrieved 2008-10-03.
"Remembering better days: The Campus Club of old". The Daily Princetonian. 2005-09-27. Archived from the original on 2006-10-20. Retrieved 2008-10-03.
"Campus Club's demise reveals social problems". The Daily Princetonian. 2005-09-27. Archived from the original on 2006-10-21. Retrieved 2008-10-03.
"Campus Club hires director". The Daily Princetonian. 2007-09-19. Archived from the original on 2008-09-05. Retrieved 2008-10-03.
"Campus Club asbestos deemed not dangerous". The Daily Princetonian. 2008-04-08. Archived from the original on 2012-02-22. Retrieved 2008-10-03.
"April opening set for Campus Club". The Daily Princetonian. 2008-09-12. Archived from the original on 2008-09-15. Retrieved 2008-10-03.
"Official Campus Club opening delayed until next fall". The Daily Princetonian. 2008-09-12. Archived from the original on 2011-06-14. Retrieved 2009-10-27.
"Campus Club reopens doors". The Daily Princetonian. 2009-09-21. Archived from the original on 2011-06-14. Retrieved 2009-10-27.
Campus Club official University website
Alumni website
Campus Club on the Wayback Machine